mation that the QSE has obtained written authorization from the Entity to submit ERS offers on its behalf and to represent the Entity in all matters before ERCOT concerning the Entity’s provision of ERS;
(c)	Any information or data specified by ERCOT, including access to historical meter data, and affirmation by the QSE that it has obtained written authorization from the controlling Entity of the ERS Resource for the QSE to obtain such data;
(d)	Affirmation that the controlling Entity of the ERS Resource has reviewed P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.507, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Emergency Response Service (ERS), these Protocols and Other Binding Documents relating to the provision of ERS, and has agreed to comply with and be bound by such provisions;
(e)	An agreement by the QSE to produce any written authorization or agreement between the QSE and any ERS Resource it represents, as described in this Section, upon request from ERCOT or the PUCT;
(f)	Affirmation that no offered capacity from any site in an ERS Resource has been or will be committed to provide any other product, service, or program during any of the hours in the ERS Time Period in the Standard Contract Term for which the offer is submitted.  Such prohibited products, services, or programs include, but are not limited to, Ancillary Services, Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED), or TDSP standard offer programs.  As an exception to the foregoing, a QSE may offer a site to provide ERS for an ERS Time Period in the Standard Contract Term even if the QSE has an offer pending for that same site to serve as an MRA during that ERS Time Period and Standard Contract Term; however, if the site is selected to serve as an MRA it will not be permitted to serve as ERS during any ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Term in which it is obligated to serve as an MRA;
(g)	Affirmation that the QSE and the controlling Entity the ERS Resource are familiar with any applicable federal, state or local environmental regulations that apply to the use of any generator in the provision of ERS, and that the use of such generator(s) to provide of ERS would not violate those regulations.  This provision applies to both ERS Generators and to the use of backup generation by ERS Loads; and
(h)	Affirmation that each offered ERS Resource satisfies at least one of the conditions set forth in paragraph (9) of Section 3.6.1, Load Resource Participation, and that all of the ERS Resource’s offered Demand response capacity will be available if deployed by ERCOT during an emergency.
(12)	Upon request from a QSE, ERCOT shall provide the dates and times for any deployment events or tests of any ERS site during the previous three ERS Standard Contract Terms, provided that the QSE has obtained written authorization from the ERS site to obtain the information from ERCOT.  Such QSE requests shall include the following site-specific information: Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID), unique meter identifier (if applicable), or, if the site is in a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) area, site name and site address.
(13)	Sites associated with a Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) may not participate in ERS.  Offers for Resources containing sites associated with a DSR will be rejected by ERCOT.  If ERCOT determines that any participating site is associated with a DSR, that site will be treated as removed from the Resource on the date the determination was made.  An ERS Resource’s obligation will not change as a result of any such site removal.
[NPRR1000:  Delete item (13) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(14)	Each offer submitted by a QSE on behalf of an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline shall include the QSE’s projection of the maximum number of sites in the aggregation during the ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT shall review this projection and the information provided regarding the initial size of each aggregated ERS Load and shall reject any offer on behalf of such an ERS Load if the maximum size of the ERS Load projected by the QSE would violate the limits of site participation growth described in paragraph (15) below.
(15)	A QSE may modify the population of an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline once per month during an ERS Standard Contract Term via a process defined by ERCOT.  Such adjustments shall be effective on the first day of each month following the first month.  A fully validated ERS Offer form must be received by ERCOT no later than seven Business Days prior to the first day of the month for which is intended to be in effect.
(a)	During an ERS Standard Contract Term, a QSE may increase the number of sites in an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline by no more than the greater of the following:
(i)	100% of the initial number of sites; or
(ii)	Two MW times the QSE’s projection of the maximum number of sites in the aggregation during the ERS Standard Contract Term, divided by the maximum MW capacity offered for any ERS Time Period for the aggregation.
(b)	Any sites added to an ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline are subject to the same requirements for historical meter data as the other sites in the aggregation, as described in paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.3.1.1.
(16)	For each of the four ERS service types, an ERS Standard Contract Term may consist of a single ERS Contract Period or multiple non-overlapping ERS Contract Periods, as follows:  
(a)	If no ERS Resources’ obligations are exhausted for an ERS service type during an ERS Contract Period pursuant to Section 3.14.3.3, Emergency Response Service Provision and Technical Requirements, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the last Operating Day of the ERS Standard Contract Term.  
(b)	If one or more ERS Resources’ obligations in a given ERS service type are exhausted pursuant to Section 3.14.3.3, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day during which the exhaustion occurred.  However, if ERS Resources participating in a service type remain deployed at the end of that Operating Day, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day on which those ERS Resources are recalled.
(c)	If an ERS Contract Period terminates as provided in paragraph (b) above, and one or more ERS Resources’ obligations were not exhausted, a new ERS Contract Period for the ERS service type shall begin at hour ending 0100 on the following Operating Day.  This new ERS Contract Period shall terminate as provided in this Section.  
(d)	If ERCOT elects pursuant to paragraph (b) above to renew the obligations of any ERS Resources whose obligations were entirely exhausted, a new ERS Contract Period for the ERS service type shall begin at hour ending 0100 on the Operating Day after ERCOT has notified QSEs that it has elected to renew the obligation.  If a new ERS Contract Period was initiated pursuant to paragraph (c) above on an Operating Day prior to ERCOT issuing a notice of renewal under this paragraph, that ERS Contract Period shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day on which ERCOT notified QSEs that the renewal will take place.  This new ERS Contract Period shall terminate as provided in this Section.
(17)	An ERS Resource currently obligated to provide an ERS service type during an ERS Time Period and ERS Contract Period may be offered to provide service as an MRA during that same ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Period.  If the ERS Resource is selected to provide service as an MRA during an ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Period in which it is currently obligated to provide an ERS service type, the ERS Contract Period will be terminated for that ERS service type.  The ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day that is five days before the first Operating Day the ERS Resource is obligated to provide service under the MRA Agreement.  However, if any ERS Resources participating in that ERS service type are currently deployed at the end of the Operating Day the ERS Contract Period is scheduled to terminate, then the ERS Resource’s ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall continue until the end of the Operating Day on which all of the ERS Resources participating in that ERS service type have been recalled, at which time the ERS Contract Period will terminate.
(18)	ERS Resources shall be obligated in ERS Contract Periods as follows:  
(a)	Unless an ERS Contract Period is terminated pursuant to paragraph (17) above, for the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, all ERS Resources awarded by ERCOT shall be obligated.
(b)	ERS Resources shall be obligated for 24 hours of cumulative deployment time for any ERS Contract Period during the December through March ERS Standard Contract Term.  The obligated cumulative deployment time for any ERS Contract Period during all other ERS Standard Contract Terms shall be 12 hours.
(c)	For each of any subsequent ERS Contract Periods for a given ERS service type in an ERS Standard Contract Term, any ERS Resource with remaining obligation due to cumulative deployment time of less than the maximum deployment hours specified for the ERS Standard Contract Term in paragraph (b) above at the end of the last ERS Contract Period shall be obligated for only this remaining deployment time in the new ERS Contract Period.  
(d)	For each of any subsequent ERS Contract Periods in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT may renew the obligations of certain ERS Resources as follows: 
(i)	During the offer submission process, QSEs shall designate on the ERS offer form, which is posted on the ERCOT website, whether an ERS Resource elects to participate in renewal ERS Contract Periods (“renewal opt-in”).  Except as provided in paragraph (iv) below, this election is irrevocable once the ERS Resource has been committed for an ERS Standard Contract Term.
(ii)	If the obligations of one or more ERS Resources are exhausted before the end of an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall determine whether to include renewal opt-ins in the subsequent ERS Contract Period.  ERCOT may limit any renewal to one or more ERS Time Periods and/or a specified MW quantity in which obligations have been exhausted.  
(iii)	If ERCOT decides to include renewal opt-ins in a subsequent ERS Contract Period, ERCOT shall promptly notify all ERS QSEs as to the ERS Time Periods and/or any specified MW quantity that it has elected to renew.
(iv)	By the end of the second Business Day in any renewal ERS Contract Period, a QSE may revoke the renewal opt-in status of any of its committed ERS Resources for any subsequent ERS Contract Periods within that ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT shall develop a method for QSEs to communicate such information.
(v)	By the end of the third Business Day in any ERS Contract Period other than the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall communicate to QSEs a confirmation of the terms of participation for all of their committed ERS Resources.
(19)	In any 12-month period beginning on December 1st and ending on November 30th, ERCOT shall not commit dollars toward ERS in excess of the ERS cost cap, except for the purpose of renewing ERS Resource obligations during a period where ERS has been exhausted.  ERCOT may determine cost limits for each ERS Standard Contract Term in order to ensure that the ERS cost cap is not exceeded.
(20)	If a QSE offers a Weather-Sensitive ERS Load, selects a control group baseline for that ERS Load, and ERCOT determines that the magnitude of the offer relative to the baseline error will prevent accurate determination of the performance, ERCOT shall reject the offer.
(21)	ERCOT shall reduce the available expenditure under the ERS cost cap by the value of the amount of ERS Self-Provision.  ERCOT shall value ERS Self-Provision at the clearing price multiplied by the total MW of ERS Self-Provision during each relevant ERS Time Period.
(22)	ERCOT shall procure ERS Resources for each ERS Time Period using a clearing price.  The Emergency Response Service Procurement Methodology, posted on the ERCOT website, is an Other Binding Document that describes the methodology used by ERCOT to procure ERS.  ERCOT may consider geographic location and its effect on congestion in making ERS awards.  ERCOT may prorate the capacity awarded to an ERS Resource in an ERS Time Period if the capacity offered for that ERS Resource would cost more than the Emergency Response Service Procurement Methodology allows under the time period expenditure limit.  Such proration shall only be done if the QSE indicates on its offer for an ERS Resource that the QSE is willing to have the capacity prorated and also has indicated the lowest prorated capacity limit which is acceptable for that ERS Resource.  If proration would result in an award below an ERS Resource’s designated prorated capacity limit or below the minimum MW offer applicable to the ERS service type as specified in paragraph (8) above, the offer will not be awarded.  
(23)	Payments and Self-Provision credits to QSEs representing ERS Resources are subject to adjustments as described in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities.  Deployment of ERS Resources will not result in additional payments other than any payment for which the QSE may be eligible through Real-Time energy imbalance or other ERCOT Settlement process. 
(24)	QSEs representing ERS Resources selected to provide ERS shall execute a Standard Form Emergency Response Service Agreement, as provided in Section 22, Attachment G, Standard Form Emergency Response Service Agreement.
3.14.3.2	Emergency Response Service Self-Provision
(1)	QSEs may self-provide ERS.  A QSE electing to self-provide all or part of its ERS obligation shall provide ERCOT with the following, while adhering to a schedule published by ERCOT:
(a)	The maximum MW of capacity the QSE is willing to self-provide for each ERS Time Period for each of the four ERS service types; and
(b)	A proxy Load Ratio Share (LRS) specific to each ERS Time Period for which an offer is submitted.  Proxy LRS shall be a number between zero and one and determined by the self-providing QSE to represent its estimate of its final LRS to be used in ERS Settlement.
(2)	ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit is defined as the maximum level of self-provided ERS MW capacity for which a QSE may receive credit at Settlement for each ERS service type.  During the procurement process, a QSE may elect to use a proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit (based on the proxy LRS it submitted) to reduce its ERS Self-Provision MW for each ERS service type.  After receiving ERS Self-Provision information, ERCOT will award offers for additional MWs of ERS capacity for each ERS service type such that the sum of the following does not exceed the total amount of ERS capacity ERCOT intends to procure for that ERS service type in any one ERS Time Period:  
(a)	ERS capacity awarded through ERS competitive offers; and 
(b)	ERS capacity awarded through ERS Self-Provision offers, where for each self-providing QSE the self-provided capacity offer is the lesser of the amount offered or the QSE’s proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit.
 (3)	The calculations used to determine a QSE’s proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for each ERS service type for the ERS procurement phase are the same as those used to determine the actual ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for Settlement, as described in Section 6.6.11.1, Emergency Response Service Capacity Payments, except that:
(a)	Offered ERS capacity is substituted for delivered ERS capacity; and
(b)	A QSE’s proxy LRS is substituted for its actual LRS.
(4)	ERCOT shall compute and provide QSEs offering ERS Self-Provision their proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for each ERS service type.  A QSE may then reduce any or all of its self-provision offers such that its revised total ERS Self-Provision capacity is greater than or equal to its proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit provided by ERCOT.  
(5)	A QSE with reduced ERS Self-Provision capacity shall notify ERCOT of the ERS Resources whose obligations are reduced and the quantity of the revised obligations.  The QSE must provide this information to ERCOT within two Business Days of receiving Notice of the reduced obligation.
(6)	If a QSE reduces its ERS commitment according to these procedures, it will not be obligated to pay ERS charges so long as the ERS Self-Provision capacity it delivers is equal to or greater than its final LRS of the total ERS capacity delivered through offers and ERS Self-Provision, as described in paragraph (2) of Section 6.6.11.2, Emergency Response Service Capacity Charge. 
(7)	A QSE opting for ERS Self-Provision may also offer separate capacity into ERS in the form of a priced offer in the same manner as any other QSE.
(8)	The capacity obligation of a self-provided ERS Resource that is designated for renewal opt-in, as described in paragraph (18) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement, will be fixed at the original awarded MW level for any subsequent ERS Contract Periods in the ERS Standard Contract Term.
3.14.3.3	Emergency Response Service Provision and Technical Requirements
(1)	If ERCOT deploys ERS, any ERS Resource that is contractually committed to provide the ERS service type deployed during the ERS Time Period that includes all or any part of the first interval of the Sustained Response Period must deploy.  If an ERS Resource does not have an obligation for any part of the first interval of the Sustained Response Period, the ERS Resource is not required to deploy at any time during the Sustained Response Period.
(2)	For purposes of this paragraph, deployment obligation time is the cumulative time during the Sustained Response Period of an event during which an ERS Resource has an obligation.  Deployment obligation time does not include the ramp time.  An ERS Resource shall be subject to the maximum cumulative deployment obligation time for an ERS Contract Period as specified in paragraph (18)(b) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement, except that for ERS Resources that did not exhaust their obligations in a previous ERS Contract Period within the same ERS Standard Contract Term, the maximum deployment obligation time shall be the remaining deployment obligation time from the previous ERS Contract Period as provided by paragraph (18)(c) of Section 3.14.3.1.  Weather-Sensitive ERS test deployments do not contribute to the calculation of cumulative deployment obligation time.
(3)	Unless ERCOT has received a notice of unavailability in a format prescribed by ERCOT, ERCOT shall assume that a contracted ERS Resource is fully available to provide ERS.
(4)	QSEs and ERS Resources they represent shall meet the following technical requirements: 
(a)	Each ERS Resource, including each member of an aggregated ERS Resource, must have an ESI ID or Resource ID (RID) and dedicated metering, as defined by ERCOT.  An ERS Resource located outside of a competitive service area may use a unique service identifier in lieu of an ESI ID or RID.  ERCOT shall analyze 15-minute interval meter data, adjusted for the deemed actual Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs), for each ERS Resource for purposes of offer analysis, availability and performance measurement.  ERS Resources behind a NOIE meter point shall arrange, preferably with the NOIE TDSP, to provide ERCOT with 15-minute interval meter data subject to ERCOT’s specifications and approval.  ERS Resources behind a Private Use Network’s Settlement Meter point shall provide ERCOT 15-minute interval meter data subject to ERCOT’s specifications and approval.  All generators in an ERS Resource must have TDSP metering capable of measuring energy exported to the ERCOT System and TDSP metering capable of measuring energy imported from the ERCOT System.  The QSE must also ensure that interval metering is installed that measures the output of each site in the ERS Generator and that conforms with the requirements described in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.142, Submetering for Apartments, Condominiums, and Mobile Home Parks.  Time stamps shall conform to the requirements in Section 10.9.2, TSP or DSP Metered Entities.  The ERS Resource associated with unique meters in competitive choice areas will be adjusted by the same DLFs as the ESI ID associated with that ERS Resource.  The ERS Resource associated with unique meters in NOIE areas will be adjusted based on a NOIE DSP DLF study submitted to ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (6) of Section 13.3, Distribution Losses.   
(b)	An ERS Resource participating in ERS-10 must be capable of meeting its event performance obligations relevant to its assigned performance evaluation methodology within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction to its QSE, and must be able to maintain such performance for the entire Sustained Response Period.  An ERS Resource participating in ERS-30 must be capable of meeting its event performance obligations relevant to its assigned performance evaluation methodology within 30 minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction to its QSE, and must be able to maintain such performance for the entire Sustained Response Period.
(c)	A QSE must be capable of communicating with its ERS Resources in sufficient time to ensure deployment as described in paragraph (b) above.
(d)	QSEs shall communicate to ERCOT, in a method prescribed by ERCOT, material changes in the availability status of their ERS Resources.
(e)	An ERS Resource deployed for ERS must be able to return to a condition such that it is capable of meeting its ERS performance requirements within ten hours following a release Dispatch Instruction.
(f)	ERS Resources and their QSEs are subject to qualification based on ERCOT’s evaluation of their historical meter data and, if applicable, their historic performance in providing other comparable ERCOT services.  ERS Resources and their QSEs are subject to testing requirements as described in Section 8.1.3.2, Testing of Emergency Response Service Resources.  
(g)	ERS Resources are not subject to the modeling, telemetry and COP requirements of other Resources.
(5)	The contracted capacity of ERS Resources may not be used to provide Ancillary Services during a contracted ERS Time Period.  Nothing herein shall be construed to limit passive (voluntary) Load response, provided the ERS Resource meets its performance and availability requirements, as described in Section 8.1.3.1, Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources.
(6)	QSEs representing ERS Resources must meet the requirements specified in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities.
3.14.3.4	Emergency Response Service Reporting and Market Communications
(1)	ERCOT shall review the effectiveness and benefits of ERS every 12 months from the start of the program year and report its findings to TAC no later than April 15 of each calendar year.
(2)	Prior to the start of the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, and no later than the end of the third Business Day following the start of any subsequent ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the number of MW procured per ERS Time Period, the number and type of ERS Resources selected, and the projected total cost of ERS for that ERS Contract Period.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the following documents to the MIS Certified Area for each of the four ERS service types:
(a)	ERS Award Notification;
(b)	ERS Resources Submission Form – Approved; 
(c)	ERS Resource Event Performance Summary;
(d)	ERS Resource Availability Summary;
(e)	ERS Test Portfolio;
(f)	ERS Resource Test Results;
(g)	ERS Pre-populated Resource Identification Forms;
(h)	ERS Resource Group Assignments;
(i)	ERS Resource Submission Form – Error Reports;
(j)	ERS Preliminary Baseline Review Results;
(k)	ERS QSE Portfolio Availability Summary;
(l)	ERS QSE Portfolio Event Performance Summary;
(m)	ERS Meter Data Error Report;
(n)	ERS QSE-level Payment Details Report; and
(o)	ERS Obligation Report for TDSPs.
(4)	At least 24 hours before an ERS Standard Contract Term begins, or within 72 hours after the beginning of a new ERS Contract Period within an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall post the information below to the MIS Certified Area for each affected TDSP:
(a)	A list of ERS Resources and members of aggregated ERS Resources located in the TDSP’s service area that will be participating in ERS during the upcoming ERS Standard Contract Term; 
(b)	The name of the QSE representing each ERS Resource;
(c)	The ERS service type provided by each ERS Resource for each ERS Time Period;
(d)	All applicable ESI IDs or unique meter identifier associated with each ERS Resource; 
(e)	Estimate of the ERS MW obligation by station code for TDSPs in competitive areas;
(f)	Estimate of the ERS MW obligation by zip code for TDSPs in NOIE areas; and 
(g)	The date(s) of the interconnection agreement(s) for each generator in any ERS Generator.
(5)	TDSPs shall maintain the confidentiality of the information provided pursuant to paragraph (4) above.
(6)	ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the following information for each ERS offer 60 days after the first day of the ERS Standard Contract Term:
(a)	The name of the QSE submitting the offer; 
(b)	For each ERS Time Period, the price and quantity offered, or if the offer is for self-provided ERS, the quantity offered and an indication that the MW will be self-provided; and
(c)	The ERS service type.
[NPRR885, NPRR995, NPRR1007, and NPRR1246:  Insert applicable portions of Sections 3.14.4 and 3.14.4.1 below upon system implementation for NPRR885 or NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:]
3.14.4	Must-Run Alternative Service
3.14.4.1	Overview and Description of MRAs
(1)	Subject to approval by the ERCOT Board, ERCOT may procure Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service as an alternative to contracting with an RMR Unit if ERCOT determines that the MRA Agreement(s) will, in whole or in part, address the reliability need identified in the RMR study in a more cost-effective manner.
(2)	ERCOT will issue a request for proposal (RFP) to solicit offers from QSEs to provide MRA Service.  
(a) 	A QSE may submit an offer in response to the RFP or enter into an MRA Agreement only if it meets all registration and qualification criteria in Section 16.2, Registration and Qualification of Qualified Scheduling Entities.  
(b)	QSEs whose offers for MRA Service are accepted will be paid according to their offers, subject to the terms of the RFP, MRA Agreement and ERCOT Protocols.  A clearing price mechanism shall not be used for awarding offers for MRA Service.
(c)	A QSE may submit more than one offer for MRA Service in response to a single RFP.  A QSE may not submit the same MRA or MRA Sites in more than one of its offers.  ERCOT may award multiple offers to a QSE, so long as the MRA or MRA Sites in an awarded offer are not included in any other awarded offer.  A QSE may condition ERCOT’s acceptance of an offer for a Demand Response MRA on ERCOT’s acceptance of an offer for a co-located Other Generation MRA offer. 
(d)	Demand Response MRAs and Other Generation MRAs, including MRA Sites within aggregated MRAs, that are situated in NOIE service territories, are eligible to provide MRA Service.  Any QSE other than the NOIE QSE wishing to represent such MRAs must obtain written authorization allowing the representation from the NOIE in which the MRA is located.  This authorization must be signed by an individual with authority to bind the NOIE and must be submitted to ERCOT prior to the submission of an offer in response to the MRA.
(3)	An MRA may be connected at either transmission or distribution voltage.
(4)	An MRA offer is ineligible to the extent it offers capacity that was included as a Resource in ERCOT’s RMR analysis or in the Load forecasts from the Steady State Working Group (SSWG) base cases used as the basis for the RMR analysis, as provided for in paragraph (3)(a) of Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process.  
(5)	Each MRA must provide at least five MW of capacity.  
(6)	Eligible MRA resources may include:
(a)	A proposed Generation Resource or ESR that was not included in the reliability need evaluation pursuant to paragraph (3)(a) of Section 3.14.1.2.  
(i) 	Proposed Generation Resources or ESRs must adhere to all interconnection requirements, including the requirements of Planning Guide Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification.  
(ii)	If the proposed Generation Resource is an Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR), the QSE shall provide capacity values based on the Resource’s projected peak average capacity contribution during the MRA Contracted Hours.
(b)	Proposed capacity additions to existing Generation Resources or ESRs, if the additional capacity was not included in the reliability need evaluation pursuant to paragraph (3)(a) of Section 3.14.1.2. 
(i)	Prior to providing MRA Service, the Resource Entity will be required to modify its Resource Registration information and complete necessary interconnection requirements with respect to this additional capacity.  
(ii)	If the capacity is being added to an IRR, the QSE shall provide capacity values based on the Resource’s projected peak average capacity contribution during the hours identified during the MRA Contracted Hours.
(c)	A proposed or existing generator registered, or proposed to be registered, with ERCOT as a Settlement Only Generator (SOG) or as Distributed Generation (DG).  If the generator is an intermittent renewable generator, the QSE, when responding to an RFP for MRA Service, shall provide capacity values based on the MRA’s projected peak average capacity contribution during the hours identified in the MRA Contracted Hours.
(d)	Proposed or existing Demand response assets, which may include Load Resources and ERS Loads. 
(e)	A proposed or existing Energy Storage System (ESS) registered, or proposed to be registered, with ERCOT as a Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS).
(7)	An MRA must be able to provide power injection or Demand response to the ERCOT System at ERCOT’s discretion during the MRA Contracted Hours.
(a)	QSE offers in response to an RFP for MRA Service must fully describe all of the MRA’s temporal constraints. 
(b)	For a Demand Response MRA, QSE offers in response to an RFP for MRA Service must include a statement as to whether the offered capacity is a Weather–Sensitive MRA.
(8)	The QSE representing an MRA must be capable of receiving both VDI and XML instructions.
(9)	ERCOT will periodically validate an MRA’s telemetry using 15-minute interval meter data.
(10)	An MRA for which the MRA or every MRA Site, is metered with either an Advanced Meter or an ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter must be available for qualification testing no later than 10 days prior to the first day of the contracted MRA Service.  Other MRAs must be available for qualification testing no later than 45 days prior to the first day of the contracted MRA Service.
(11) 	All MRA Sites within an MRA must be of the same type (i.e., all Generation Resource MRA, ESR MRA, Other Generation MRA, or Demand Response MRA).
(12)	A QSE representing an MRA shall submit to ERCOT and continuously update an Availability Plan for each MRA Contracted Hour for the current Operating Day and the next six Operating Days.
(13)	A QSE representing an MRA or MRA Site may not submit DAM Offers, provide an Ancillary Service or carry an ERS responsibility on behalf of any MRA or MRA Site during the MRA Contracted Hours.  Demand Response MRAs may not participate in TDSP standard offer programs during any MRA Contracted Hours.
(14)	A Combined Cycle Train serving as an MRA must be configured as a single Combined Cycle Generation Resource.   
(15)	QSEs representing MRAs shall submit offers using an MRA offer sheet as provided by ERCOT. 
(16)	QSEs must submit the following information for each MRA offer:
(a)	The capacity, months and hours offered;
(b)	For an aggregated MRA, the offered capacity allocated to each MRA Site for all months and hours offered;
(c)	The Resource ID, ESI ID and or unique meter ID associated with the MRA, or in the case of an aggregated MRA, a list of the Resource IDs, ESI IDs and/or unique meter IDs of the offered MRA Sites;
(d)	The MRA Standby Price, represented in dollars per MW per hour;
(e)	Required capital expenditure, if any, if the MRA offer is awarded; 
(f)	The MRA Event Deployment Price, in dollars per deployment event, or proxy fuel consumption rate;
(g)	The ramp period or startup time of the MRA or aggregated MRA;
(h)	The MRA Variable Price, in dollars per MW per hour, and/or proxy heat rate;
(i)	The target availability of the MRA or aggregated MRA; and
(j)	Any additional information required by ERCOT within the RFP.
(17)	Demand Response MRAs shall not be deployed more than once per Operating Day.
(18)	Except for a Forced Outage, any Outage of an MRA must be approved by ERCOT. 
(19)	For any MRA that is registered with ERCOT as a Resource, the QSE representing the MRA must be the same as the QSE representing the Resource.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.2 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.2	Preliminary Review of Prospective Demand Response MRAs
(1)	In order to assist QSEs prior to their submission of MRA offers, ERCOT may provide QSEs, upon request, with an analysis of their prospective Demand Response MRA’s consumption patterns.  
(2)	ERCOT will provide a QSE with the analysis described under this Section only when the QSE makes its request in conformance with submission requirements and deadline set forth in the relevant MRA RFP.
(3)	In response to a proper and timely request by a QSE, ERCOT will provide the following information for each prospective Demand Response MRA: 
(a)	Substation identification for each MRA or MRA Site;
(b)	Demand Response MRA baseline options, if the resource qualifies for a default baseline; and
(c)	Historical reference Load levels; and
(d)	Any known errors or exceptions, such as whether the MRA or any MRA Sites are currently suspended from participation in another service (e.g., ERS), whether any listed MRA or MRA Sites have erroneous ESI IDs, or whether any prospective MRA or MRA Site lacks sufficient historical meter data.
(4) 	A submission by a QSE of a prospective Demand Response MRA does not bind the QSE to submit an offer for MRA Service.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.3 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.3	MRA Substitution
(1)	Subject to approval by ERCOT, a QSE may provide a substitution for a contracted MRA.  Any substituted MRA is subject to the same obligations as the originally awarded MRA.  
(2)	ERCOT, at its discretion, may disallow an MRA substitution if it determines that the substitution may cause operational or reliability concerns, does not provide expected reliability benefits equivalent to those under the MRA Agreement, or is inconsistent with Protocols.  
(3)	Any substitution must cover all MRA Contracted Hours in an Operating Day and may cover one or more Operating Days.
(4)	For purposes of payment, for any calendar day during which one or more MRA substitutions was made, the performance of an MRA shall be determined based on the combined performance of the original and substitution MRAs.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.4 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.4	Commitment and Dispatch
(1)	ERCOT may commit and/or Dispatch an MRA during the term of the MRA Agreement for the purpose of utilizing the MRA’s contracted capacity at any time during the contracted hours in the MRA Agreement.  
(2)	ERCOT may commit an MRA, via VDI, prior to the contracted hours in the MRA Agreement based on the MRA’s ramp period or startup time, in order to ensure that the MRA Service is provided during the contracted hours.
(3)	In an MRA deployment event or unannounced test, the start time of the Demand response Ramp Period and/or generator startup time will be determined by ERCOT upon review of the time-stamped recording of the VDI.  The start time begins when the ERCOT operator confirms the QSE’s repeat-back of the instruction.
[NPRR885 and NPRR1246:  Insert applicable portions of Section 3.14.4.5 below upon system implementation for NPRR885; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
3.14.4.5	Standards for Generation Resource MRAs and ESR MRAs 
(1)	A Generation Resource MRA and ESR MRA shall at all times communicate accurate Resource Status to ERCOT via telemetry as described in Section 6.4.6, Resource Status.  
(2)	A Generation Resource MRA and ESR MRA shall be committed by ERCOT VDI and Dispatched by SCED.
[NPRR885:  Insert Sections 3.14.4.6 and 3.14.4.6.1 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6	Standards for Other Generation MRAs and Demand Response MRAs
3.14.4.6.1	MRA Telemetry Requirements
(1)	A QSE representing an Other Generation MRA shall at all times communicate an accurate status to ERCOT via telemetry at the MRA level and shall provide at least the following values: 
(a)	Status (e.g., ON, OUT, etc…);
(b)	High Sustained Limit (HSL);
(c)	LSL;
(d)	Current output level in MW;
(e)	Gross Reactive Power in MVAr; and
(f)	Net Reactive Power in MVAr.
(2)	A Demand Response MRA’s QSE shall at all times communicate accurate MRA status to ERCOT via telemetry and shall provide at least the following values: 
(a)	Net Power Consumption (NPC); and
(b)	Low Power Consumption (LPC) 
(3)	Event performance for Other Generation MRAs that are not Dispatched by SCED shall be evaluated by ERCOT as described in Section 3.14.4.6.5, MRA Event Performance Measurement and Verification.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.2 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.2	Baseline Performance Evaluation Methodology for Demand Response MRAs
(1)	A Demand Response MRA must qualify for one or more options described in the document entitled “Default Baseline Methodology” posted on the ERCOT website.  The baseline will be used to verify the Demand Response MRA’s performance as compared to its contracted capacity during an MRA deployment event.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.3 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.3	MRA Metering and Metering Data 
(1)	Each Demand Response MRA, or each MRA Site within an aggregated Demand Response MRA, must have an ESI ID and dedicated 15-minute Interval Data Recorder (IDR) metering.  A Demand Response MRA, or an MRA Site within an aggregated Demand Response MRA, that is located outside of a competitive service area may use a unique meter ID in lieu of an ESI ID. 
(2)	Each Other Generation MRA, or each MRA Site within an aggregated Other Generation MRA, must have an ESI ID and, if applicable, a Resource ID and dedicated 15-minute IDR metering.  An Other Generation MRA, or an MRA Site within an aggregated Other Generation MRA, that is located outside of a competitive service area may use unique meter IDs in lieu of the ESI ID and Resource ID.
(3)	For ESI IDs and Resource IDs situated in either NOIE or competitive choice areas of the ERCOT Region, meter data is stored in the ERCOT systems and will be accessed by ERCOT and used for all performance evaluations.
(4)	A QSE representing an MRA or MRA Site in a NOIE service territory is responsible for arranging with the NOIE TDSP to provide ERCOT with interval meter data for the MRA or MRA Site in a format prescribed by ERCOT on a monthly basis within 35 days following the end of a calendar month.
(5)	ERCOT shall use 15-minute interval meter data, adjusted for the deemed actual DLFs, for each Demand Response MRA and each Other Generation MRA for purposes of availability and event performance measurement.  
(a)	The interval meter data for an MRA or MRA Site located in a competitive choice area will be adjusted by the DLFs used for Settlement for that MRA or MRA Site.
(b)	The interval meter data for an MRA or MRA Site associated with a Unique Meter ID in a NOIE area will be adjusted based on a NOIE DSP DLF study submitted to ERCOT pursuant to Section 13.3, Distribution Losses.  If no such study has been submitted, the interval meter data will not be adjusted for distribution losses.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.4 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.4	MRA Availability Measurement and Verification
(1)	Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA availability will be evaluated on a monthly basis.
(2)	Within 45 days after the end of each month that a Demand Response MRA or an Other Generation MRA is obligated to be available under the terms of an MRA Agreement, ERCOT shall provide each QSE representing that MRA with a report of the MRAs availability for that month. 
(3)	For a Demand Response MRA or an Other Generation MRA, ERCOT will treat the MRA as unavailable for any committed intervals for which the meter data is not in ERCOT systems, regardless of the reason.
(4)	For a Demand Response MRA, ERCOT will consider the Demand Response MRA to have been available for any 15-minute interval in which the Demand Response MRA was contracted and for which the most current Availability Plan for the Demand Response MRA indicates that the Demand Response MRA is available and for which the effective actual MW Load was greater than 95% of the Demand Response MRA’s effective contracted capacity; otherwise, the Demand Response MRA will be considered unavailable for that 15-minute interval.  For purposes of payment under Section 6.6.6.7, MRA Standby Payment, the Demand Response MRA’s Monthly Availability Factor will be the ratio of the number of 15-minute intervals the Demand Response MRA was available during the MRA Contracted Month divided by the total number of contracted 15-minute intervals in the MRA Contracted Month.  For purposes of this paragraph, the following shall apply:
(a) 	The effective actual MW Load in an interval for an aggregated Demand Response MRA shall be the aggregated sum across all MRA Sites of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor, and the MRA Site metered MW;
(b)	The effective actual MW Load in an interval for a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation shall be the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor, and the metered MW value;
(c) 	The effective contracted capacity in an interval for an aggregated Demand Response MRA shall be the aggregated sum across all MRA Sites of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor, and the MRA Site’s portion of the contract capacity; and
(d)	The effective contracted capacity in an interval for a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation shall be the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor, and the contract capacity.
(5)	For an Other Generation MRA, ERCOT will consider the Other Generation MRA to have been available for any 15-minute interval in which the Other Generation MRA was contracted and for which the most current Availability Plan for the Other Generation MRA indicates that the Other Generation MRA is available and for which the Other Generation MRA’s export to the ERCOT System was equal to zero; otherwise, the Other Generation MRA will be considered unavailable for that 15-minute interval.  For purposes of payment under Section 6.6.6.7, the Other Generation MRA’s Monthly Availability Factor will be the ratio of the number of 15-minute intervals the Other Generation MRA was available during the MRA Contracted Month divided by the total number of contracted 15-minute intervals in the MRA Contracted Month. 
(6)	The following intervals will be excluded in ERCOT’s calculations of an MRA’s Monthly Availability Factor, for purposes of payment under Section 6.6.6.7:
(a)	Any 15-minute interval in which an MRA was deployed during an MRA deployment event or an unannounced ERCOT test;
(b)	Any 15-minute intervals on the day of an MRA deployment or an unannounced ERCOT test following the issuance of the ERCOT recall instruction applicable to that MRA; and
(c)	Any 15-minute interval in which an MRA or MRA Site was disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the generation, delivery or measurement of electricity to the MRA or MRA Site.  QSEs must obtain documentation from the TDSP regarding such events and must provide copies of such documentation to ERCOT for any interval to be excluded from the Monthly Availability Factor calculation.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.5 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.5	MRA Event Performance Measurement and Verification
(1)	This section applies to both Demand Response MRAs and Other Generation MRAs.  For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(a)	“Ramp Period” is the period of time, as set out in the MRA Agreement, by which the MRA agrees to begin delivering its contracted capacity following the ERCOT deployment VDI.   
(b)	“MRA Deployment Period” is the window of time beginning with the end of the MRA’s Ramp Period or the beginning of the MRA Contracted Hours, whichever is later, and ending with ERCOT’s VDI to recall the MRA.
(2)	No later than 45 days after an event in which one or more Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA were tested or deployed, ERCOT shall provide each QSE representing an MRA with a performance report containing the results of ERCOT’s evaluation of the event or test for each deployed or tested MRA.  The Event Performance Reduction Factor (MRAEPRF) for each MRA shall be the time-weighted average of the MRA’s Interval Performance Factors (MRAIPF) which are calculated as set out in paragraph (3) below.
(3)	ERCOT shall calculate the MRAIPF for intervals during an unannounced ERCOT test or an MRA deployment as follows:
MRAIPF q, r, i  = Max(Min(((Effective Base_MW i – Effective Actual_MW i) / (IntFrac i 
* Effective Contracted_Capacity_MW i)),1),0)
Where:
IntFrac i = (CEndT i – CBegT i) / 15
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
MRAEPRF q, r, m	None	Must-Run Alternative Event Performance Reduction Factor per QSE for the month—The Event Performance Reduction Factor of the MRA r represented by QSE q, for each hour of the month m.  The event performance reduction factor shall be determined as the time-weighted average of the Interval Performance Factor (MRAIPF).
MRAIPF q, r, i 	None	Must-Run Alternative Interval Performance Factor per QSE per Resource for the interval— The interval performance factor of the MRA r represented by QSE q, for the Settlement Interval i.  
IntFrac i	None	Interval fraction for that MRA for each Settlement Interval i in an MRA deployment period.
Effective Base_MWi	MW	For an aggregated Demand Response MRA, the aggregated sum of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor, and the MRA Site baseline MW values estimated by ERCOT for all MRA Sites in the MRA for that interval.  For a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation, the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor, and the MRA baseline MW value estimated by ERCOT for that interval.
For an aggregated Other Generation MRA, the aggregated sum of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor, and the MRA Site MW injected to the ERCOT System for the Settlement Interval i.  For an Other Generation MRA that is not an aggregation, the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor, and the MW injected to the grid by the MRA for that interval.
Effective Actual_MW i	MW	For an aggregated Demand Response MRA, the aggregated sum of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor and the metered MW values for all MRA Sites in the MRA for the Settlement Interval i.  For a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation, the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor and the metered MW value for the Settlement Interval i.
For an Other Generation MRA, zero.
Effective Contracted_Capacity_MW i	MW	For an aggregated MRA, the sum of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor and the MRA Site portion of the contracted capacity of the MRA for the Settlement Interval i.
CBegT i	Minutes	If the MRA deployment period begins during that interval, the time in minutes and fractions of minutes from the beginning of that interval to the beginning of the MRA deployment period, otherwise it is zero.
CEndT i	Minutes	If the MRA deployment period ends during that interval, the time in minutes and fractions of minutes from the beginning of that interval to the end of the MRA deployment period, otherwise it is 15.
i	None	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
m	None	The index for a given month within the MRA Contracted Hours.
r	None	An MRA.
(4)	For each unannounced ERCOT test or MRA deployment of a Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA, ERCOT will calculate an MRA Event Performance Reduction Factor (MRAEPRF) as described in paragraph (2) above for the intervals covered by the test/event.  The Event Performance Reduction Factor calculation will begin with the first partial or full interval in the MRA deployment period and will end with the last full interval in the MRA deployment period.
(5)	A Demand Response MRA shall be deemed to have met its test/event performance requirements if it is determined by ERCOT to have met its Demand response obligations in the MRA deployment event as measured using the ERCOT-established baseline that ERCOT determines most accurately represents the Demand Response MRA’s Demand response contribution.
(6)	The MRA deployment period for a Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA will end at the time ERCOT issues a release instruction via VDI, or the end of the last MRA Contracted Hour on the day of the deployment, whichever is earlier.  
(7)	Event Performance Reduction Factors are expressed as a number between 0 and 1, rounded to three decimal places.  
(8)	A Demand Response MRA or an Other Generation MRA that achieves an Event Performance Reduction Factor of 0.950 or greater for a test/event and an Interval Performance Factor for the first full interval of the test/event of 0.950 or greater will be deemed to have successfully met its deployment obligations for that test/event.
(9)	If a Demand Response MRA or an Other Generation MRA fails to achieve an Event Performance Reduction Factor of 0.950 or greater, the Interval Performance Factors for that MRA for that event will be multiplied by an adjustment factor such that the Event Performance Reduction Factor for the test/event will be equal to the square of the original event performance factor.
(10)	If a Demand Response MRA has been classified by ERCOT as providing Weather-Sensitive MRA, and if ERCOT determines that the normalized peak Demand reduction value for the Demand Response MRA is greater than 95% of the largest contracted capacity value offered in any MRA Contracted Hour by the QSE for the Demand Response MRA, ERCOT shall not apply the adjustment factors as specified in paragraph (9) above.  To determine the normalized peak Demand reduction value, ERCOT shall:
(a) 	Calculate an average Demand reduction value across the intervals for each test and/or actual deployment event during the MRA contract period.  For this purpose the Demand reduction value for an interval shall be calculated as the greater of zero or effective base MW for the interval less the effective actual MW for the interval; and
(b)	Model the relationship of the average Demand reduction values determined in paragraph (a) above to actual weather and use the derived normalized peak Demand reduction value as the value that would be realized under normalized peak weather conditions.
(11)	For any contracted month in which ERCOT has deployed one or more Demand Response MRAs or Other Generation MRAs more than once for either an unannounced test or an MRA deployment, the Event Performance Reduction Factor (MRAEPRF) as described in paragraph (2) above for the MRA for the contracted month shall be the time-weighted average of the interval performance factor values for all tests/events in the Contracted Month.  The interval performance factors used for this calculation shall reflect any squaring applied pursuant to paragraph (9) above.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.5.1 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.5.1	Event Performance Measurement and Verification for Co-Located Demand Response MRAs and Other Generation MRAs
(1)	A Demand Response MRA shall be deemed by ERCOT to be co-located with an Other Generation MRA when all of the following conditions are satisfied: 
(a)	For an aggregated Demand Response MRA and an aggregated Other Generation MRA, each MRA Site in the Demand Response MRA is physically located with an MRA Site in the Other Generation MRA; 
(b)	For a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation and an Other Generation MRA that is not an aggregation, the Demand Response MRA is physically located with the Other Generation MRA;
(c)	For a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation and an aggregated Other Generation MRA, the Demand Response MRA is physically located with an MRA Site the Other Generation MRA;
(d)	The MRA Contracted Hours for the Demand Response MRA are the same as the MRA Contracted Hours for the Other Generation MRA; and 
(e)	The Demand Response MRA has not been classified by ERCOT as providing Weather-Sensitive MRA.
(2)	If a Demand Response MRA has been deemed by ERCOT to be co-located with an Other Generation MRA, the event performance of the two Resources shall be calculated as a combination.  For the calculations described in paragraph (2) of Section 3.14.4.6.5, MRA Event Performance Measurement and Verification, the effective base MW of the combination shall be the sum of the values calculated for the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA, the effective actual MW shall be the sum of the values calculated for the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA, and the effective contract capacity MW shall be the sum of the values calculated for the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA.
(3)	For the calculations described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.4.6.5, the MRAEPRF for the co-located combination shall be calculated as the time-weighted average of the interval performance factors calculated for the combination of the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA. The steps described in paragraphs (4) through (10) of Section 3.14.4.6.5 shall be followed for the combination of the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA, and the MRAEPRF for the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA for the MRA Contracted Month shall be equal to the MRAEPRF calculated for the combination for the MRA Contracted Month.
[NPRR885 and NPRR1246:  Insert applicable portions of Section 3.14.4.7 below upon system implementation for NPRR885; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
3.14.4.7	MRA Testing 
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct a test of every MRA prior to the initial MRA Contracted Month.
(2)	ERCOT may conduct an unannounced test of any MRA at any time during a MRA Contracted Month.  Testing for MRAs, other than for Demand Response MRAs classified as providing Weather-Sensitive MRA, will be limited to no more than once per MRA Contracted Month.  Testing for Demand Response MRAs classified as Weather-Sensitive MRA will be limited to no more than twice per MRA Contracted Month.
(3)	ERCOT will not conduct an unannounced test of an MRA during a calendar month subsequent to an actual MRA deployment event.
(4)	A substituted Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA will be subject to monthly unannounced testing regardless of tests or events occurring prior to the start date of the substitution.
(5)	ERCOT shall limit the duration of MRA deployment periods of any single test to a maximum of one hour.
(6)	For the purposes of Section 6.6.6.7, MRA Standby Payment, ERCOT may adjust the testing capacity results for a Generation Resource MRA or an ESR MRA to reflect conditions beyond the control of the Generation Resource MRA or ESR MRA.
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.8 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.8	MRA Misconduct Events 
(1)	With respect to MRA Service, a “Misconduct Event” means any MRA Contracted Hour during which the MRA, in a deployment event, is directed to but does not make available to ERCOT the power injection or Demand response in the amount shown in the MRA Availability Plan.  
(2)	ERCOT will charge a QSE representing an MRA for unexcused Misconduct Events as specified in Section 6.6.6.11, MRA Charge for Unexcused Misconduct.
(3)	ERCOT will assess a single charge to the QSE for each Operating Day on which one or more Misconduct Event occurs.    
(4)	The QSE may be excused by ERCOT from a Misconduct Event charge if ERCOT determines, in its discretion, that the Misconduct Event was not due to intentionally incomplete or inaccurate reporting to ERCOT regarding the availability of the MRA.
(5)	ERCOT shall inform the QSE in writing of its determination if a Misconduct Event is deemed unexcused. 
[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.9 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.9	MRA Reporting to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs)
(1)	At least 24 hours before the beginning of an MRA Contracted Month, ERCOT shall provide the report described in paragraph (2) below to each TDSP that has a Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA within their service area that is providing MRA Service for the MRA Contracted Month.
(2) 	The report will include the following information for each MRA and MRA Site within the TDSP’s service area:
(a)	The name of the QSE representing each MRA or MRA Site;
(b)	A list of the Resource IDs, ESI IDs, and Unique Meter IDs for each MRA or MRA Site;
(c)	The date of the interconnection agreement for each Resource ID; and
(d)	For each Operating Hour, the aggregate contracted capacity for all MRAs and MRA Sites within the TDSP’s service area, by station code in competitive areas and by zip code in NOIE areas.
(3)	Reports provided under this section are Protected Information under Section 1.3.1.1, Items Considered Protected Information.  TDSPs shall maintain the confidentiality of the reports. 
3.14.5	Firm Fuel Supply Service
(1)	Each Generation Resource providing or offering to provide Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS), including the primary and any alternate Generation Resources identified in the FFSS Offer Submission Form, must meet technical requirements specified in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards, and Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(2)	ERCOT shall issue an RFP by August 1 of each year soliciting offers from QSEs for Generation Resources to provide FFSS.  The RFP shall require offers to be submitted on or before September 1 of each year. 
(3)	QSEs may submit offers individually for one or more Generation Resources to provide FFSS using the FFSS Offer Submission Form posted on the ERCOT website.  A QSE may not submit an offer for a given Generation Resource unless it is the QSE designated by the Resource Entity associated with that Generation Resource.  ERCOT must evaluate offers using criteria identified in an appendix to the RFP.  ERCOT will issue FFSS awards by September 30 and will post the awards to the MIS Certified Area for each QSE that is awarded an FFSS obligation.  The posting will include information such as, but not limited to, the identity of the primary Generation Resource and any alternate Generation Resource(s), the FFSS clearing price, the amount of reserved fuel associated with the FFSS award, the MW amount awarded, and the Generation Resource’s initial minimum LSL when providing FFSS.  The RFP awards shall cover a period beginning November 15 of the year in which the RFP is issued and ending on March 15 of the year after the year in which the RFP is issued.  A QSE may submit an offer for one or more Generation Resources to provide FFSS beginning in the same year the RFP is issued or as otherwise specified in the RFP.  An FFSS Resource (FFSSR) shall be considered an FFSSR and is required to provide FFSS from November 15 through March 15 for each year of the awarded FFSS obligation period.  ERCOT shall ensure FFSSRs are procured and deployed as necessary to maintain ERCOT System reliability during, or in preparation for, a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption.
(a)	On the FFSS Offer Submission Form, the QSE shall disclose information including, but not limited to, the Generation Resource and any alternate Generation Resource(s), the amount of reserved fuel offered, the MW available from the capacity offered, an estimate of the time to restock fuel reserves, and each limitation of the offered Generation Resource that could affect the Generation Resource’s ability to provide FFSS.  
(b)	If the QSE offers a Generation Resource as meeting the qualification requirements in paragraph (1)(c) of Section 8.1.1.2.1.6, Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource Qualification, Testing, Decertification, and Recertification, the QSE must submit as part of its offer a certification for the offered Generation Resource.  The certification must include:  
(i)	Certification that the Generation Entity for the Generation Resource (or an Affiliate) has a Firm Transportation Agreement, firm natural gas supply, and contracted or owned storage capacity meeting the qualification requirements in paragraph (1)(c) of Section 8.1.1.2.1.6; 
(ii)	The following information regarding the Firm Transportation Agreement:
(A)	FFSS Qualifying Pipeline name;
(B)	Term; 
(C)	Primary points of receipt and delivery; 
(D)	Maximum daily contract quantity (in MMBtu);
(E)	Shipper of record; and
(F)	Whether the Firm Transportation Agreement provides for ratable receipts and deliveries; and
(iii)	The following information regarding the storage arrangements:
(A)	Storage facility name;
(B)	Term of the Firm Gas Storage Agreement (if applicable);
(C)	Maximum storage quantity owned or contracted under the Firm Gas Storage Agreement (in MMBtu); and
(D)	Maximum daily withdrawal quantity (in MMBtu).
(c)	For a Generation Resource to be eligible to receive an FFSS award, the primary Generation Resource and any alternate Generation Resource(s) identified in the FFSS Offer Submission Form shall complete all applicable testing requirements as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.6.  A QSE representing an FFSSR is allowed to provide the FFSS with an alternate Resource previously approved by ERCOT to replace the FFSSR.
(d)	An offer to provide FFSS is an offer to supply an awarded amount of capacity, maintain a sufficient amount of reserved fuel to meet that award for the duration requirement specified in the RFP, and to designate a specific number of emissions hours that will be reserved for the awarded FFSSR in meeting its obligation to perform in the event that FFSS is deployed.  Reserved fuel, emissions hours, and other attributes, in excess of what is needed to meet the FFSS obligation can be used at the discretion of the QSE as long as sufficient fuel reserves and emissions hours are maintained for the purposes of ERCOT deployment of FFSS.  
(e)	Within ten Business Days of issuing FFSS awards, ERCOT will post on the ERCOT website the identity of all Generation Resources that were offered as primary Generation Resources or alternate Generation Resources to provide FFSS for the most recent procurement period, including prices and quantities offered.
(4)	The QSE for an FFSSR shall ensure that the Resource is prepared and able to come On-Line or remain On-Line in order to maintain Resource availability in the event of a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption. 
(a)	When ERCOT issues a Watch for winter weather, ERCOT will notify all Market Participants, including all QSEs representing FFSSRs, to begin preparation for potential FFSS deployment.  Such preparation may include, but is not limited to, circulation of alternate fuel to its facilities, if applicable; heat fuel oil to appropriate temperatures, if applicable; call out additional personnel as necessary, and be ready to receive a Dispatch Instruction to provide FFSS.  An FFSSR may begin consuming a minimum amount of alternate fuel to validate it is ready for an FFSS deployment.
(b)	In anticipation of or in the event of a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption to an FFSSR, the QSE shall notify ERCOT as soon as practicable and may request approval to deploy FFSS to generate electricity.  ERCOT shall evaluate system conditions and may approve the QSE’s request.  The QSE shall not deploy the FFSS unless approved by ERCOT.  Upon approval to deploy FFSS, ERCOT shall issue an FFSS Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the QSE.  ERCOT may issue separate VDIs for each Operating Day for each FFSSR that is deployed for FFSS.
(c)	In conjunction with a QSE notification under paragraph (b) above, the QSE shall also report to ERCOT any environmental limitations that would impair the ability of the FFSSR to provide FFSS for the required duration of the FFSS award.
(d)	ERCOT may issue an FFSS VDI without a request from the QSE, however ERCOT shall not issue an FFSS VDI without evidence of an impending or actual fuel supply disruption affecting the FFSSR. 
(e)	If the FFSSR is generating at a level above the FFSS MW awarded amount and that level of output cannot be sustained for the required duration of the FFSS award, ERCOT may use a manual High Dispatch Limit (HDL) override to ensure the FFSSR can continue to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the entire FFSS duration requirement specified in the RFP.
(f)	The FFSSR shall continuously deploy FFSS to generate electricity until the earlier of (i) the exhaustion of the fuel reserved to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP, including any fuel that was restocked following approval or instruction from ERCOT, (ii) the fuel supply disruption no longer exists, or (iii) ERCOT determines the FFSS deployment is no longer needed.  Upon satisfying one of these qualifications, ERCOT shall terminate the VDI.  In the event of (i), the FFSSR shall not be obligated to continue being available for FFSS deployment for the remainder of the Watch.  In the event of (ii) or (iii), the FFSSR shall continue being available for FFSS deployment for the remainder of the Watch.
(g)	The QSE for the FFSSR is responsible for communicating with the ERCOT control room the anticipated exhaustion of the reserved fuel at least six hours before that anticipated exhaustion and upon the exhaustion of that fuel.
(h)	A QSE shall notify the ERCOT control room of the anticipated exhaustion of emissions credits or permit allowances at least six hours before the exhaustion of those credits or allowances.  Upon receiving such notification, ERCOT shall modify the VDI so the FFSS deployment is terminated upon exhaustion of those credits or allowances.
(i)	Upon deployment or recall of FFSS, ERCOT shall notify all Market Participants that such deployment or recall has been made, including the MW capacity of service deployed or recalled.
(5)	Following each deployment of FFSS, the QSE for an FFSSR may request approval from ERCOT via email to FFSS@ercot.com, or ERCOT may instruct the QSE to restock their fuel reserve to restore their ability to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP as follows:
(a)	The QSE requests preliminary approval from ERCOT control room, or ERCOT provides preliminary instruction, to restock and provide ERCOT an initial estimated timeline to complete the refueling.
(b)	After receiving preliminary approval or instruction from ERCOT, the QSE shall:
(i)	Immediately provide a final estimate for completing the restocking of fuel; or 
(ii)	Within 24 hours, notify the ERCOT control room with an updated estimated timeline to complete the restocking of the fuel.
(c)	Based on the most recent expected time needed to restock the fuel, the ERCOT control room may or may not provide final approval for restocking of the fuel.  
(d)	If ERCOT makes final approval to restock the fuel, the QSE representing the FFSSR shall inform the ERCOT control room immediately when restocking is complete.
(6)	Following final approval from ERCOT, a QSE must restock their fuel reserve, using existing fuel inventories or new fuel purchases, to restore their ability to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the specified duration requirement.  In the event ERCOT does not receive the request to restock from a QSE representing an FFSSR, but the QSE no longer has sufficient reserved fuel to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the specified duration requirement, the QSE shall communicate to the ERCOT control room this reduced capability and ERCOT may instruct the QSE to restock the fuel reserve as described in paragraph (5) above.
(7)	For a Resource to be considered as an alternate for providing FFSS, the following requirements must be met.  The alternate Resource must:
(a)	Be able to provide net real power sufficient to generate at the same FFSS MW award level as the primary Resource for the duration requirement specified in the RFP;
(b)	Be a single Generation Resource, as registered with ERCOT; and 
(c)	Use the same source of fuel reserve for providing FFSS as the primary Resource.
(8)       An FFSS Offer Submission Form may have up to three alternate Generation Resources per primary Resource offering to provide FFSS.  
(9)	For FFSSRs with approved alternate Generation Resources if the FFSSR becomes unavailable, the QSE must: 
(a)	As soon as practicable, notify ERCOT via email to FFSS@ercot.com and inform ERCOT that the FFSSR will be replaced by one of the alternate Generation Resources, specify which alternate Generation Resource (if multiple alternate Generation Resources have been designated), and provide an estimate of how long the replacement will be in effect;
(b)	Update the Availability Plans for these Generation Resources to reflect current operating conditions within 60 minutes after identifying the change in availability of the FFSSR; and 
(c)	Update the COPs for these Generation Resources within 60 minutes after identifying the change in availability of the FFSSR.
(10)	For FFSSRs that were replaced by one of their approved alternate Generation Resources, when the primary Resource is once again the FFSSR, the QSE must notify ERCOT of the change via email to the email address provided in paragraph (9)(a) above as soon as practicable.
(11)	An FFSSR providing BSS must have sufficient fuel reserved to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP in addition to any fuel required for the Generation Resource to meet the contracted BSS obligation.  Any remaining fuel reserve in addition to that required for meeting FFSS and BSS obligations can be used at the QSE’s discretion.
(12)	If ERCOT issues an FFSS VDI to an FFSSR for the same Operating Hour where a RUC instruction was issued, then for Settlement purposes ERCOT will consider the RUC instruction as cancelled.
(13)	If FFSS is deployed, then ERCOT will provide a report to the TAC or its designated subcommittee within 45 days of the end of the FFSS obligation period.  The report must include the Resources deployed and the reason for any deployments. 
(14)	Any QSE that submits an offer or receives an award for a SWGR to provide FFSS, and the Resource Entity that owns or controls that SWGR, shall: 
(a)	Not nominate the SWGR to satisfy supply adequacy or capacity planning requirements in any Control Area other than the ERCOT Region during the period of the FFSS obligation; and
(b)	Take any further action requested by ERCOT to ensure that ERCOT will be classified as the “Primary Party” for the SWGR under any agreement between ERCOT and another CAO during the period of the FFSS obligation.
(15)	On an annual basis after the FFSS season, ERCOT will provide a report separately for the total amounts from Section 6.6.14.1, Firm Fuel Supply Service Fuel Replacement Costs Recovery, and Section 6.6.14.2, Firm Fuel Supply Service Hourly Standby Fee Payment and Fuel Replacement Cost Recovery, to the TAC or its designated subcommittee.
3.15	Voltage Support
(1)	ERCOT, in coordination with the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), shall establish and update, as necessary, the ERCOT System Voltage Profile and shall post it on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.  ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or that TSP’s agent, may modify the Voltage Set Point described in the Voltage Profile based on current system conditions. 
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (i) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT, in coordination with the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), shall establish and update, as necessary, the ERCOT System Voltage Profile and shall post it on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or that TSP’s agent, may modify the Voltage Set Point described in the Voltage Profile based on current system conditions.
(2)	All Generation Resources (including self-serve generating units) and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) that are connected to Transmission Facilities and that have a gross unit rating greater than 20 MVA or those units connected at the same Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB) that have gross unit ratings aggregating to greater than 20 MVA, that supply power to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, shall provide Voltage Support Service (VSS).
(3)	Except as reasonably necessary to ensure reliability or operational efficiency, TSPs should utilize available static reactive devices prior to requesting a Voltage Set Point change from a Generation Resource or ESR.
(4)	Each Generation Resource and ESR required to provide VSS shall comply with the following Reactive Power requirements in Real-Time operations when issued a Voltage Set Point by a TSP or ERCOT:  
(a)	An over-excited (lagging or producing) power factor capability of 0.95 or less determined at the unit's maximum net power to be supplied to the ERCOT Transmission Grid and for any Voltage Set Point from 0.95 per unit to 1.04 per unit, as measured at the POIB;
(b)	An under-excited (leading or absorbing) power factor capability of 0.95 or less, determined at the unit's maximum net power to be supplied to the ERCOT Transmission Grid and for any Voltage Set Point from 1.0 per unit to 1.05 per unit, as measured at the POIB;  
(c)	For any Voltage Set Point outside of the voltage ranges described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Generation Resource or ESR shall supply or absorb the maximum amount of Reactive Power available within its inherent capability and the capability of any VAr-capable devices as necessary to achieve the Voltage Set Point;
(d)	When a Generation Resource or an ESR required to provide VSS is issued a new Voltage Set Point, that Generation Resource or ESR shall make adjustments in response to the new Voltage Set Point, regardless of whether the current voltage is within the tolerances identified in paragraph (4) of Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.7.3.5, Resource Entity Responsibilities and Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource Requirements;
(e)	For Generation Resources, the Reactive Power capability shall be available at all MW output levels and may be met through a combination of the Generation Resource’s Corrected Unit Reactive Limit (CURL), which is the generating unit’s dynamic leading and lagging operating capability, and/or dynamic VAr-capable devices.  This Reactive Power profile is depicted graphically as a rectangle.  For Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs), the Reactive Power requirements shall be available at all MW output levels at or above 10% of the IRR’s nameplate capacity.  When an IRR is operating below 10% of its nameplate capacity and is unable to support voltage at the POIB, ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or that TSP’s agent may require an IRR to disconnect from the ERCOT System for purposes of maintaining reliability.  For ESRs, the Reactive Power capability shall be available at all MW levels, when charging or discharging, and may be met through a combination of the ESR’s CURL, and/or dynamic VAr-capable devices.  For any ESR that achieved Initial Synchronization before December 16, 2019, the requirement to have Reactive Power capability when charging does not apply if the Resource Entity for the ESR has submitted a notarized attestation to ERCOT stating that, since the date of Initial Synchronization, the ESR has been unable to comply with this requirement without physical or software changes/modifications, and ERCOT has provided written confirmation of the exemption to the Resource Entity.  The exemption shall apply only to the extent of the ESR’s inability to comply with the requirement when the ESR is charging.
(f)	For any Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) that is part of a Self-Limiting Facility, the capabilities described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be determined based on the Self-Limiting Facility’s established MW Injection limit and, if applicable, established MW Withdrawal limit.
(5)	As part of the technical Resource testing requirements prior to the Resource Commissioning Date, all Generation Resources and ESRs must conduct an engineering study, and demonstrate through performance testing, the ability to comply with the Reactive Power capability requirements in paragraph (4), (7), (8), or (9) of this Section, as applicable.  Any study and testing results must be accepted by ERCOT prior to the Resource Commissioning Date.
(6)	Except for a Generation Resource or an ESR subject to Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, Applicability, a Generation Resource or an ESR that has already been commissioned is not required to submit a new reactive study or conduct commissioning-related reactive testing, as described in paragraph (5) above.
(7)	Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) that commenced operation on or after February 17, 2004, and have a signed Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA) on or before December 1, 2009 (“Existing Non-Exempt WGRs”), must be capable of producing a defined quantity of Reactive Power to maintain a set point in the Voltage Profile established by ERCOT in accordance with the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above, except in the circumstances described in paragraph (a) below.  
(a)	Existing Non-Exempt WGRs whose current design does not allow them to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above must conduct an engineering study using the Summer/Fall 2010 on-peak/off-peak Voltage Profiles, or conduct performance testing to determine their actual Reactive Power capability.  Any study or testing results must be accepted by ERCOT.  The Reactive Power requirements applicable to these Existing Non-Exempt WGRs will be the greater of: the leading and lagging Reactive Power capabilities established by the Existing Non-Exempt WGR’s engineering study or testing results; or Reactive Power proportional to the real power output of the Existing Non-Exempt WGR (this Reactive Power profile is depicted graphically as a triangle) sufficient to provide an over-excited (lagging) power factor capability of 0.95 or less and an under-excited (leading) power factor capability of 0.95 or less, both determined at the WGR’s set point in the Voltage Profile established by ERCOT, and both measured at the POIB.
(i)	Existing Non-Exempt WGRs shall submit the engineering study results or testing results to ERCOT no later than five Business Days after its completion.
(ii)	Existing Non-Exempt WGRs shall update any and all Resource Registration data regarding their Reactive Power capability documented by the engineering study results or testing results.
(iii)	If the Existing Non-Exempt WGR’s engineering study results or testing results indicate that the WGR is not able to provide Reactive Power capability that meets the triangle profile described in paragraph (a) above, then the Existing Non-Exempt WGR will take steps necessary to meet that Reactive Power requirement depicted graphically as a triangle by a date mutually agreed upon by the Existing Non-Exempt WGR and ERCOT.  The Existing Non-Exempt WGR may meet the Reactive Power requirement through a combination of the WGR’s Unit Reactive Limit (URL) and/or automatically switchable static VAr-capable devices and/or dynamic VAr-capable devices.  No later than five Business Days after completion of the steps to meet that Reactive Power requirement, the Existing Non-Exempt WGR will update any and all Resource Registration data regarding its Reactive Power and provide written notice to ERCOT that it has completed the steps necessary to meet its Reactive Power requirement.
(iv)	For purposes of measuring future compliance with Reactive Power requirements for Existing Non-Exempt WGRs, results from performance testing or the Summer/Fall 2010 on-peak/off-peak Voltage Profiles utilized in the Existing Non-Exempt WGR’s engineering study shall be the basis for measuring compliance, even if the Voltage Profiles provided to the Existing Non-Exempt WGR are revised for other purposes.
(b)	Existing Non-Exempt WGRs whose current design allows them to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above (depicted graphically as a rectangle) shall continue to comply with that requirement.  ERCOT, with cause, may request that these Existing Non-Exempt WGRs provide further evidence, including an engineering study, or performance testing, to confirm accuracy of Resource Registration data supporting their Reactive Power capability.
(8)	Qualified Renewable Generation Resources (as described in Section 14, State of Texas Renewable Energy Credit Trading Program) in operation before February 17, 2004, required to provide VSS and all other Generation Resources required to provide VSS that were in operation prior to September 1, 1999, whose current design does not allow them to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above, will be required to maintain a Reactive Power requirement as defined by the Generation Resource’s URL that was submitted to ERCOT and established per the criteria in the ERCOT Operating Guides.
(9)	New generating units connected before May 17, 2005, whose owners demonstrate to ERCOT’s satisfaction that design and/or equipment procurement decisions were made prior to February 17, 2004, based upon previous standards, whose design does not allow them to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above, will be required to maintain a Reactive Power requirement as defined by the Generation Resource’s URL that was submitted to ERCOT and established per the criteria in the Operating Guides.
(10)	For purposes of meeting the Reactive Power requirements in paragraphs (4) through (9) above, multiple units including IRRs shall, at a Resource Entity’s option, be treated as a single Resource if the units are connected to the same transmission bus.
(11)	Resource Entities may submit to ERCOT specific proposals to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above by employing a combination of the CURL and added VAr capability, provided that the added VAr capability shall be automatically switchable static and/or dynamic VAr devices.  A Resource Entity and TSP may enter into an agreement in which the proposed static VAr devices can be switchable using Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  ERCOT may, at its sole discretion, either approve or deny a specific proposal, provided that in either case, ERCOT shall provide the submitter an explanation of its decision.
(12)	A Resource Entity and TSP may enter into an agreement in which the Generation Resource or ESR compensates the TSP to provide VSS to meet the Reactive Power requirements of paragraph (4) above in part or in whole.  The TSP shall certify to ERCOT that the agreement complies with the Reactive Power requirements of paragraph (4).
(13)	Unless specifically approved by ERCOT, no unit equipment replacement or modification at a Generation Resource or ESR shall reduce the capability of the unit below the Reactive Power requirements that applied prior to the replacement or modification.
(14)	Generation Resources or ESRs shall not reduce high reactive loading on individual units during abnormal conditions without the consent of ERCOT unless equipment damage is imminent.
(15)	All WGRs must provide a Real-Time SCADA point that communicates to ERCOT the number of wind turbines that are available for real power and Reactive Power injection into the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  WGRs must also provide two other Real-Time SCADA points that communicate to ERCOT the following:
(a)	The number of wind turbines that are not able to communicate and whose status is unknown; and 
(b)	The number of wind turbines out of service and not available for operation.
(16)	All PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) must provide a Real-Time SCADA point that communicates to ERCOT the capacity of PhotoVoltaic (PV) equipment that is available for real power and Reactive Power injection into the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  PVGRs must also provide two other Real-Time SCADA points that communicate to ERCOT the following:
(a)	The capacity of PV equipment that is not able to communicate and whose status is unknown; and
(b)	The capacity of PV equipment that is out of service and not available for operation.  
[NPRR1029:  Insert paragraph (17) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(17)	Each DC-Coupled Resource must provide a Real-Time SCADA point that communicates to ERCOT the capacity of the intermittent renewable generation component of the Resource that is available for real power and/or Reactive Power injection into the ERCOT System.  Each DC-Coupled Resource must also provide Real-Time SCADA points that communicate to ERCOT the following:
(a)	The capacity of any PV generation equipment that is not able to communicate and whose status is unknown; 
(b)	The capacity of any PV generation equipment that is out of service and not available for operation;  
(c)	The number of any wind turbines that are not able to communicate and whose status is unknown; and 
(d)	The number of any wind turbines out of service and not available for operation.
(17)	For the purpose of complying with the Reactive Power requirements under this Section 3.15, Reactive Power losses that occur on privately-owned transmission lines behind the POIB may be compensated by automatically switchable static VAr-capable devices.
3.15.1	ERCOT Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support
(1)	ERCOT, in coordination with the TSPs, shall establish, and update as necessary, a Voltage Profile at the POIB for each Generation Resource and ESR required to provide VSS to maintain system voltages within established limits.
(2)	ERCOT shall communicate to the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) and TSPs the desired voltage at the POIB by providing Voltage Profiles.
(3)	ERCOT, in coordination with TSPs, shall deploy static Reactive Power Resources as required to continuously maintain dynamic reactive reserves from QSEs, both leading and lagging, adequate to meet ERCOT System requirements. 
[NPRR1098:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	ERCOT, in coordination with TSPs, shall deploy static Reactive Power Resources as required to continuously maintain dynamic reactive reserves from QSEs and Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), both leading and lagging, adequate to meet ERCOT System requirements.
(4)	For any Market Participant’s failure to meet the Reactive Power voltage control requirements of these Protocols, ERCOT shall notify the Market Participant in writing of such failure and, upon a request from the Market Participant, explain whether and why the failure must be corrected.
(5)	ERCOT shall notify all affected TSPs of any alternative requirements it approves.
(6)	Annually, ERCOT shall review Distribution Service Provider (DSP) power factors using the actual summer Load and power factor information included in the annual Load data request to assess whether DSPs comply with the requirements of this subsection.  At times selected by ERCOT, ERCOT shall require manual power factor measurement at substations and points of interconnection for Load that do not have power factor metering.  ERCOT shall try to provide DSPs sufficient notice to perform the manual measurements.  ERCOT may not request more than four measurements per calendar year for each DSP substation or points of interconnection for Load where power factor measurements are not available.
(7)	If actual conditions indicate probable non-compliance of TSPs and DSPs with the requirements to provide voltage support, ERCOT shall require power factor measurements at the time of its choice while providing sufficient notice to perform the measurements.
(8)	ERCOT shall investigate claims of TSP and DSP alleged non-compliance with Voltage Support requirements. The ERCOT investigator shall advise ERCOT and TSP planning and operating staffs of the results of such investigations. 
3.15.2	DSP Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support
(1)	Each DSP and Resource Entity within a Private Use Network shall meet the requirements specified in this subsection, or at their option, may meet alternative requirements specifically approved by ERCOT.  Such alternative requirements may include requirements for aggregated groups of Facilities.
(a)	Sufficient static Reactive Power capability shall be installed by a DSP or a Resource Entity within a Private Use Network not subject to a DSP tariff in substations and on the distribution voltage system to maintain at least a 0.97 lagging power factor for the maximum net active power measured in aggregate on the distribution voltage system.  In those cases where a Private Use Network’s power factor is established and governed by a DSP tariff, a Resource Entity within a Private Use Network shall ensure that the Private Use Network meets the requirements as defined and measured in the applicable tariff.  
(b)	DSP substations whose annual peak Load has exceeded ten MW shall have and maintain Watt/VAr metering sufficient to monitor compliance; otherwise, DSPs are not required to install additional metering to determine compliance.
(c)	All DSPs shall report any changes in their estimated net impact on ERCOT as part of the annual Load data assessment.
(d)	As part of the annual Load data assessment, all Resource Entities owning Generation Resources shall provide an annual estimate of the highest potential affiliated MW and MVAr Load (including any Load netted with the generation output) and the highest potential MW and MVAr generation that could be experienced at the POIB, based on the current configuration (and the projected configuration if the configuration is going to change during the year) of the Generation Resource and any affiliated Loads.
3.15.3	Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource Requirements Related to Voltage Support
(1)	Generation Resources and ESRs required to provide VSS shall have and maintain Reactive Power capability at least equal to the Reactive Power capability requirements specified in these Protocols and the ERCOT Operating Guides.
(2)	Generation Resources and ESRs providing VSS shall be compliant with the ERCOT Operating Guides for response to transient voltage disturbance.
(3)	Generation Resources and ESRs providing VSS must meet technical requirements specified in Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing, and the performance standards specified in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards.
(4)	Each Generation Resource and ESR providing VSS shall operate with the unit’s Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR) in the automatic voltage control mode unless specifically directed to operate in manual mode by ERCOT, or when the unit is telemetering its Resource Status as STARTUP, SHUTDOWN, or ONTEST, or the QSE determines a need to operate in manual mode due to an undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment at the generating plant.
(5)	Each Generation Resource and ESR providing VSS shall maintain the Voltage Set Point established by ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or the TSP’s agent, subject to the Generation Resource’s or ESR’s operating characteristic limits, voltage limits, and within tolerances identified in paragraph (4) of Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.7.3.5, Resource Entity Responsibilities and Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource Requirements.
(6)	The reactive capability required must be maintained at all times that the Generation Resource or ESR is On-Line.
(7)	Each QSE shall send to ERCOT, via telemetry, the AVR and Power System Stabilizer (PSS) status for each of its Generation Resources providing VSS.  Each QSE shall send to ERCOT via telemetry the AVR status for each of its ESRs providing VSS.  For AVRs, an “On” status will indicate the AVR is on and set to regulate the Resource’s terminal voltage in the voltage control mode, and an “Off” status will indicate the AVR is off or in a manual mode.  For PSS, an “On” status will indicate the service is enabled and ready for service, and an “Off” status will indicate it is off or out of service.  Each QSE shall monitor the status of its Generation Resources’ and ESRs’ regulators and stabilizers, and shall report status changes to ERCOT.
(8)	Each Resource Entity shall provide information related to the tuning parameters, local or inter-area, of any PSS installed at a Generation Resource.
(9)	If any individual Resource within a Self-Limiting Facility is incapable of meeting its Reactive Power requirement at the POI, the QSE must bring On-Line additional Resource(s) within the Self-Limiting Facility to provide VSS as specified in paragraph (4) of Section 3.15, Voltage Support, while respecting the limit on MW Injection.
(10)	The Resource Entity for an IRR synchronized to the ERCOT System that is not capable of providing Reactive Power when not producing real power shall:
(a)	When capable of providing real power, set the IRR’s Low Sustained Limit (LSL) to 0 MW, or the lowest MW level, not to exceed 1 MW, at which the IRR can provide stable Reactive Power after appropriate tuning of settings;
(b)	Ensure the lowest MW point on the submitted reactive capability curve reflects 0 MVAr leading and lagging reactive capability at 0 MW; 
(c)	Ensure the second-lowest MW point on the submitted reactive capability curve accurately reflects the IRR’s leading and lagging reactive capability at its LSL when the LSL is not 0 MW; and
(d)	Send to ERCOT, via telemetry, an AVR status of “Off” when the IRR is synchronized to the ERCOT System and not producing Reactive Power.
(11)	The Resource Entity for an IRR synchronized to the ERCOT System that is capable of providing any net Reactive Power when not producing real power shall:
(a)	Provide stable Reactive Power output at all MW levels at which the IRR has Reactive Power capability; 
(b)	When capable of providing real power, set the IRR LSL to 0 MW or the lowest MW level, not to exceed 1 MW, at which the IRR can provide stable Reactive Power after appropriate tuning of settings;
(c)	Ensure the lowest MW point on the submitted reactive capability curve accurately reflects the IRR’s MVAr leading and lagging reactive capability when not producing real power; 
(d)       Ensure the second-lowest MW point on the submitted reactive capability curve accurately reflects the IRR’s leading and lagging reactive capability at its LSL when the LSL is not 0 MW;
(e)	Send to ERCOT, via telemetry, an AVR status of “On” when the IRR is synchronized to the ERCOT System, not producing real power, and reactive control is working properly; and
(f)	Meet the requirements in paragraphs (2), (4), (5), and (7) above when the IRR is synchronized to the ERCOT System and not producing real power.
(12)	The Resource Entity for an IRR that is capable of providing any net Reactive Power when not producing real power may physically desynchronize its inverters from the ERCOT System instead of providing Reactive Power when not producing real power.
[NPRR1098:  Insert Section 3.15.4 below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
3.15.4	Direct Current Tie Owner and Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support
(1)	The following Direct Current Ties (DC Ties) are subject to the Reactive Power capability requirements specified in these Protocols and the ERCOT Operating Guides:
(a)	Any DC Tie with an initial energization date after January 1, 2021.
(b)	Any DC Tie that is modified by increasing the physical capacity of the DC Tie by 20 MW or more or by changing the power converter associated with the DC Tie, unless the replacement is in-kind.
(2)	The owner of a DC Tie meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) above shall ensure that the DC Tie Facility has the following Reactive Power capabilities:
(a)	An over-excited (lagging or producing) power factor capability of 0.95 or less determined at the DC Tie’s physical capacity at any voltage from 0.95 per unit to 1.04 per unit, as measured at the Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB);
(b)	An under-excited (leading or absorbing) power factor capability of 0.95 or less determined at the DC Tie’s physical capacity at any voltage from 1.0 per unit to 1.05 per unit, as measured at the POIB;
(c)	Reactive Power capability shall be available at all MW levels, whether injecting or withdrawing power, and may be met through a combination of the DC Tie’s dynamic leading and lagging operating capability and/or dynamic VAr-capable devices.
(3)	The owner of a DC Tie meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) above must conduct an engineering study demonstrating the ability of the DC Tie Facility to meet the Reactive Power requirements in paragraph (2) above.  Any study results must be accepted by ERCOT prior to the initial energization date of the DC Tie.
(4)	ERCOT may, with notice, require performance testing to demonstrate a DC Tie Facility’s ability to meet the Reactive Power requirements in paragraph (2) above.
(5)	Each Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) operating a DC Tie Facility meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) above shall comply with any instruction from its designated Transmission Operator (TO) with respect to the DC Tie’s reactive power capability, including any instruction to maintain a target voltage at the POIB, subject to the DC Tie’s operating characteristic limits and voltage limits, and within the tolerances identified in paragraph (2) of Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.7.3.6, DCTO Responsibilities and DC Tie Requirements, and subject to any superseding Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT.
(6)	The owner of a DC Tie meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) above shall implement a control system to control all devices at a DC Tie Facility needed to meet the Reactive Power requirements in paragraph (2) above.  
(a)	The control system shall be operated in automatic voltage control mode unless ERCOT directs the DCTO to operate the system in manual mode.
(b)	The DCTO shall provide to its designated TO, via telemetry, the status of the control system.  An “On” status will indicate that the control system is on and set to regulate the voltage at the DC Tie’s POIB in automatic voltage control mode, and an “Off” status will indicate that the control system is off or in manual mode.
3.16	Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities
(1)	ERCOT shall comply with the requirements for determining Ancillary Service quantities as specified in these Protocols and the ERCOT Operating Guides.
(2)	ERCOT shall, at least annually, determine with supporting data, the methodology for determining the quantity requirements for each Ancillary Service needed for reliability, including:
(a)	The percentage or MW limit of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) allowed from Load Resources providing ECRS;
(b)	The maximum amount (MW) of Responsive Reserve (RRS) that can be provided by Resources capable of Fast Frequency Response (FFR);
[NPRR1128:  Replace item (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	The maximum amount (MW) of Responsive Reserve (RRS) that can be provided by Resources capable of Fast Frequency Response (FFR) and specify the Operating Hours where prioritizing procurement of FFR up to the maximum FFR amount is beneficial in improving reliability;
(c) 	The maximum amount (MW) of Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) that can be provided by Resources providing Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up); and 
(d)	The maximum amount (MW) of Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) that can be provided by Resources providing Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down).  
[NPRR1007:  Delete items (c) and (d) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(e)	The minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response shall not be less than 1,150 MW.
(3)	The ERCOT Board shall review and recommend approval of ERCOT's methodology for determining the minimum Ancillary Service requirements, any minimum capacity required from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) dispatchable Resources to provide Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), the minimum capacity required from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response to provide RRS, the maximum amount of RRS that can be provided by Resources capable of FFR, the maximum amount of RRS that an individual Resource can provide using Primary Frequency Response, and the maximum amount of Reg-Up and Reg-Down that can be provided by Resources providing FRRS-Up and FRRS-Down.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the ERCOT Methodologies for Determining Minimum Ancillary Service Requirements approved by the ERCOT Board.  Any such recommendations require approval by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) prior to implementation.
[NPRR1007, NPRR1128, NPRR1171, and NPRR1213:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1128, or NPRR1171; or upon system implementation and upon system implementation of NPRR1171 for NPRR1213:]
(3)	The ERCOT Board shall review and recommend approval of ERCOT's methodology for determining the minimum Ancillary Service requirements, any minimum capacity required from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) dispatchable Resources to provide Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), the maximum amount of Non-Spin that can be provided by Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs) and Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs) that are interconnected to a distribution circuit that is subject to Load shed, the maximum amount of ECRS that can be provided by DGRs and DESRs that are interconnected to a distribution circuit that is subject to Load shed, the minimum capacity required from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response to provide RRS, the maximum amount of RRS that can be provided by Resources capable of FFR, the maximum amount of RRS that an individual Resource can provide using Primary Frequency Response, and the Operating Hours where prioritizing procurement of FFR up to the maximum FFR amount is beneficial in improving reliability.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the ERCOT Methodologies for Determining Minimum Ancillary Service Requirements approved by the ERCOT Board.  Any such recommendations require approval by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) prior to implementation.
(4)	If ERCOT determines a need for additional Ancillary Service Resources under these Protocols or the ERCOT Operating Guides, after an Ancillary Service Plan for a specified day has been posted, ERCOT shall inform the market by posting notice on the ERCOT website, of ERCOT’s intent to procure additional Ancillary Service Resources under Section 6.4.9.2, Supplemental Ancillary Services Market.  ERCOT shall post the reliability reason for the increase in service requirements.
[NPRR1007:  Delete paragraph (4) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(5)	Monthly, ERCOT shall determine and post on the ERCOT website a minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response.  The remaining capacity required for RRS may be supplied by all Resources qualified to provide RRS, provided that RRS from Load Resources on high-set under-frequency relays and Resources providing FFR shall be limited to 60% of the total ERCOT RRS requirement.  ERCOT may increase the minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response if it believes that the current posted quantity will have a negative impact on reliability or if it would require additional Regulation Service to be deployed.
[NPRR1128:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	Monthly, ERCOT shall determine and post on the ERCOT website a minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response.  The remaining capacity required for RRS may be supplied by all Resources qualified to provide RRS, provided that RRS from Load Resources on high-set under-frequency relays and Resources providing FFR shall be limited to 60% of the total ERCOT RRS requirement.  ERCOT may increase the minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response if it believes that the current posted quantity will have a negative impact on reliability or if it would require additional Regulation Service to be deployed.  ERCOT may add more Operating Hours where prioritizing procurement of FFR up to the maximum FFR amount is beneficial in improving reliability if it believes that these additional hours are vulnerable to low system inertia.  ERCOT will issue an operations notice when such a change is made.
(6)	The amount of RRS that a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) can self-arrange using a Load Resource excluding Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) and Resources providing FFR is limited to its Load Ratio Share (LRS) of the capacity allowed to be provided by Resources not providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response established in paragraph (5) above, provided that RRS from these Resources shall be limited to 60% of the total ERCOT RRS requirement.
(7)	However, a QSE may offer more of the Load Resource above the percentage limit established by ERCOT for sale of RRS to other Market Participants.  The total amount of RRS using the Load Resource procured by ERCOT is also limited to the capacity established in paragraph (5) above, up to the lesser of the 60% limit or the limit established by ERCOT in paragraph (5) above.
(8)	Monthly, ERCOT shall determine and post on the ERCOT website a minimum capacity required from Resources providing ECRS.  The amount of Load Resources excluding CLRs that may or may not be on high-set under-frequency relays providing ECRS is limited to 50% of the total ERCOT ECRS requirement. 
(9)	The amount of ECRS that a QSE can self-arrange using a Load Resource excluding CLRs is limited to the lower of: 
(a)	50% of its ECRS Ancillary Service Obligation; or
(b)	A reduced percentage of its ECRS Ancillary Service Obligation based on the limit established by ERCOT in paragraph (8) above.  
(10)	A QSE may offer more of the Load Resource above the percentage limit established by ERCOT for sale of ECRS to other Market Participants.  The total amount of ECRS using the Load Resource excluding CLRs procured by ERCOT is also limited to the lesser of the 50% limit or the limit established by ERCOT in paragraph (9) above.
(11)	The maximum MW amount of capacity from Resources providing FRRS-Up is limited to 65 MW.  ERCOT may reduce this limit if it believes that this amount will have a negative impact on reliability or if this limit would require additional Regulation Service to be deployed.
(12)	The maximum MW amount of capacity from Resources providing FRRS-Down is limited to 35 MW.  ERCOT may reduce this limit if it believes that this amount will have a negative impact on reliability or if this limit would require additional Regulation Service to be deployed.
(13)	Resources can only provide FRRS-Up or FRRS-Down if awarded Regulation Service in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) for that particular Resource, up to the awarded quantity.
[NPRR1007:  Delete paragraphs (11)-(13) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
3.17	Ancillary Service Capacity Products 
3.17.1	Regulation Service 
(1)	Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Up capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency. A Generation Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to increase energy output when deployed and decrease energy output when recalled.  A Load Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to decrease Load when deployed and increase Load when recalled.  Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up) is a subset of Reg-Up Service in which the participating Resource provides Reg-Up capacity to ERCOT within 60 cycles of either its receipt of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction or the detection of a trigger frequency independent of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Up by a Load Frequency Control (LFC) signal.  The LFC signal for FRRS-Up is separate from the LFC signal for other Reg-Up.   
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Up capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency. A Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) in discharge mode providing Reg-Up must be able to increase energy output when deployed and decrease energy output when recalled.  A Load Resource or ESR in charge mode providing Reg-Up must be able to decrease Load when deployed and increase Load when recalled.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Up by a Load Frequency Control (LFC) signal.
(2)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Down capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency.  A Generation Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to decrease energy output when deployed and increase energy output when recalled. A Load Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to increase Load when deployed and decrease Load when recalled.  Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down) is a subset of Reg-Down Service in which a participating Resource provides Reg-Down capacity to ERCOT within 60 cycles of either its receipt of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction or the detection of a trigger frequency independent of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Down by an LFC signal.  The LFC signal for FRRS-Down is separate from the LFC signal for other Reg-Down.
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Down capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency.  A Generation Resource or ESR in discharge mode providing Reg-Down must be able to decrease energy output when deployed and increase energy output when recalled. A Load Resource or ESR in charge mode providing Reg-Down must be able to increase Load when deployed and decrease Load when recalled.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Down by an LFC signal.
3.17.2	Responsive Reserve Service 
(1)	Responsive Reserve (RRS) is a service used to restore or maintain the frequency of the ERCOT System in response to a significant frequency deviation.  
(2)	RRS is automatically self-deployed by Resources in a manner that results in real power increases or decreases.
(3)	RRS may be provided by:  
(a)	On-Line Generation Resource capable of providing Primary Frequency Response with the capacity excluding Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity (NFRC); 
(b)	Resources capable of providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) and sustaining their response for up to 15 minutes; 
(c)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays;
(d)	Controllable Load Resources (CLRs); and
(e)	Generation Resources operating in synchronous condenser fast-response mode as defined in the Operating Guides. 
[NPRR1246:  Insert item (f) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(f)	ESRs.
3.17.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Service
(1)	Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) is provided by using:
(a)	Generation Resources, whether On-Line or Off-Line, capable of: 
(i)	Being synchronized and ramped to a specified output level within 30 minutes; and 
(ii)	Running at a specified output level for at least four consecutive hours;
(b)	Controllable Load Resources qualified for Dispatch by Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) and capable of:
(i)	Ramping to an ERCOT-instructed consumption level within 30 minutes; and 
(ii)	Consuming at the ERCOT-instructed level for at least four consecutive hours; or 
(c)	Load Resources that are not Controllable Load Resources and are qualified for deployment by the operator using the Ancillary Service Deployment Manager and capable of:
(i)	Reducing consumption based on an ERCOT Extensible Markup Language (XML) instruction within 30 minutes; and 
(ii)	Maintaining that deployment until recalled.
[NPRR1246:  Insert item (d) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(d)	ESRs.
(2)	The Non-Spin may be deployed by ERCOT to increase available reserves in Real-Time Operations.  
3.17.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service 
(1)	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) is a service that is provided using capacity that can be sustained at a specified level for two consecutive hours and is used to restore or maintain the frequency of the ERCOT System:
(a)	In response to significant depletion of RRS;
(b)	As backup Regulation Service; and
(c)	By providing energy to avoid getting into or during an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA).
(2)	ECRS may be provided through one or more of the following means:  
(a)	From On-Line or Off-Line Resources as prescribed in the Operating Guides following a significant frequency deviation in the ERCOT System; and
(b)	Either manually or by using a four-second signal to provide energy on deployment by ERCOT.
(3)	ECRS may be used to provide energy prior to or during the implementation of an EEA.  ECRS provides Resource capacity, or capacity from interruptible Load available for deployment on ten minutes’ notice. 
(4)	ECRS may be provided by:  
(a)	Unloaded, On-Line Generation Resource capacity; 
(b)	Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs); 
(c)        Load Resources that may or may not be controlled by high-set, under-frequency relays; 
(d)	Controllable Load Resources; and
(e)	Generation Resources operating in synchronous condenser fast-response mode as defined in the Operating Guides.
[NPRR1246:  Insert item (f) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(f)	ESRs.
3.18	Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service 
(1)	For both Generation Resources and Load Resources the High Sustained Limit (HSL) must be greater than or equal to the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and the sum of the Resource-specific designation of capacity to provide Responsive Reserve (RRS), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin).
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	For Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), and Load Resources the High Sustained Limit (HSL) must be greater than or equal to the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and the sum of the Resource-specific awards for Responsive Reserve (RRS), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin).
(2)	For Non-Spin, the amount of Non-Spin provided must be less than or equal to the HSL for Off-Line Generation Resources.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	For Non-Spin, the amount of Non-Spin awarded must be less than or equal to the HSL for Off-Line Generation Resources.
(3)	For RRS:
(a)	The full amount of RRS using Primary Frequency Response awarded to or self-arranged from an On-Line Resource is dependent upon the verified droop characteristics of the Resource.  ERCOT shall calculate and update, using the methodology described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment N, Procedure for Calculating RRS MW Limits for Individual Resources to Provide RRS Using Primary Frequency Response, a maximum MW amount of RRS using Primary Frequency Response for each Resource subject to verified droop performance.  The default value for any newly qualified Resource not yet evaluated per Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment N shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide;  
(b)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may provide RRS up t