se Service Loads	8-106
8.1.3.4	ERCOT Data Collection for Emergency Response Service	8-107
8.2	ERCOT Performance Monitoring	8-107
8.3	TSP Performance Monitoring and Compliance	8-109
8.4	ERCOT Response to Market Non-Performance	8-110
8.5	Primary Frequency Response Requirements and Monitoring	8-111
8.5.1	Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource, and QSE Participation	8-111
8.5.1.1	Governor in Service	8-111
8.5.1.2	Reporting	8-112
8.5.1.3 	Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) Primary Frequency Response	8-113
8.5.2	Primary Frequency Response Measurements	8-113
8.5.2.1	ERCOT Required Primary Frequency Response	8-114
8.5.2.2	ERCOT Data Collection	8-115
 
8	PERFORMANCE MONITORING
(1)	This Section describes how the performance of ERCOT, Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) are measured against the requirements of these Protocols.  All performance measures must be approved by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) prior to implementation.  Summaries of the performance of each TSP and QSE and of ERCOT are to be made available on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area unless otherwise stated.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	This Section describes how the performance of ERCOT, Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), and Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) are measured against the requirements of these Protocols.  All performance measures must be approved by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) prior to implementation.  Summaries of the performance of each TSP, DCTO, and QSE and of ERCOT are to be made available on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area unless otherwise stated.
8.1	QSE and Resource Performance Monitoring
(1)	ERCOT shall develop a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)- and ERCOT Board-approved Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) and Resource monitoring program to be included in the Operating Guides.  Nothing in this Section changes the process for amending the Operating Guides.  The metrics developed by ERCOT and approved by TAC and the ERCOT Board must include the provisions of this Section.
(2)	Each QSE and Resource shall meet performance measures as described in this Section and in the Operating Guides.
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor and post the following categories of performance:
(a)	Real-Time data, for QSEs:
(i)	Telemetry performance;
(b)	Regulation control performance, for QSEs and as applicable, Resource-specific performance (see also Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards);
(c)	Hydro responsive testing for Generation Resources;
(d)	Supplying and validating data for generator models, as requested by ERCOT, for Generation Resources;
[NPRR1246:  Replace item (d) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(d)	Supplying and validating data for generator models, as requested by ERCOT, for Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs);
(e)	Outage scheduling and coordination, for QSEs and Resources;
(f)	Resource-specific Responsive Reserve (RRS) performance for QSEs and Resources;
(g)	Resource-specific Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) performance, for QSEs and Resources;
(h)	Resource-specific ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) performance for QSEs and Resources;
(i)	Outage reporting, by QSEs for Resources;
(j)	Current Operating Plan (COP) metrics, for QSEs; and
(k)	Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) commitment performance by QSEs and Generation Resources. 
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor and post the following categories of performance:
(a)	Real-Time data, for QSEs:
(i)	Telemetry performance;
(b)	Regulation control performance, for QSEs and as applicable, Resource-specific performance (see also Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards);
(c)	Hydro responsive testing for Generation Resources, on the ERCOT website;
(d)	Supplying and validating data for generator models, as requested by ERCOT, for Generation Resources;
(e)	Outage scheduling and coordination, for QSEs and Resources;
(f)	Resource-specific Responsive Reserve (RRS) performance for QSEs and Resources, on the ERCOT website;
(g)	Resource-specific Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) performance, for QSEs and Resources, on the ERCOT website;
(h)	Resource-specific ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) performance for QSEs and Resources, on the ERCOT website;
(i)	Outage reporting, by QSEs for Resources;
(j)	Current Operating Plan (COP) metrics, for QSEs, on the ERCOT website; and
(k)	Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) commitment performance by QSEs and Generation Resources, on the ERCOT website.
8.1.1	QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards
(1)	Each QSE and its Resources that provide Ancillary Service must meet performance measures set out in these Protocols and the Operating Guides.  ERCOT shall develop a TAC- and ERCOT Board-approved Ancillary Service monitoring program to evaluate the performance of QSEs and Resources providing Ancillary Services prior to the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date.  This program must include monitoring of capacity availability and energy deployments as described below and in Section 6.5.7.5, Ancillary Services Capacity Monitor.
8.1.1.1	Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing
(1)	Each QSE and the Resource providing Ancillary Service must meet qualification criteria to operate satisfactorily with ERCOT.  ERCOT shall use the Ancillary Service qualification and testing program that is approved by TAC and included in the Operating Guides.  Each QSE for the Resources that it represents may only provide Ancillary Services on those Resources for which it has met the qualification criteria.
(2)	General capacity testing must be used to verify a Resource’s Net Dependable Capability.  Qualification tests allow the Resource and QSE to demonstrate the minimum capabilities necessary to deploy an Ancillary Service.  
(3)	A Resource may be provisionally qualified for a period of 90 days and may be eligible to participate as a Resource providing Ancillary Service.  Resources that have installed the appropriate equipment with verifiable testing data may be provisionally qualified as providers of Ancillary Service. 
(4)	A Load Resource may be provisionally qualified for a period of 90 days to participate as a Resource providing Ancillary Service, if the Load Resource is metered with an Interval Data Recorder (IDR) to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction.  A Load Resource providing Ancillary Service in Real-Time must meet the following requirements:
(a)	Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) registration of Load Resources providing Ancillary Service by the QSE; and
(b)	Load Resource telemetry is installed and tested between QSE and ERCOT.
(5)	Provisional qualification as described herein may be revoked by ERCOT at any time for any non-compliance with provisional qualification requirements.
(6)	For those Settlement Intervals during which a Generation Resource or Load Resource behind the Generation Resource Node is engaged in testing in accordance with this Section, the provisions of Section 6.6.5, Generation Resource Base-Point Deviation Charge, will not apply to the Resource being tested beginning with the Settlement Interval immediately preceding the Settlement Interval in which ERCOT issues a Dispatch Instruction that begins the test and continuing until the end of the Settlement Interval in which the test completes.  During the same Settlement Intervals for the testing period, the Generation Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, will not apply.
(7)	ERCOT may reduce the amount a Resource may contribute toward Ancillary Service if it determines unsatisfactory performance of the Resource as defined in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards.
(8)	To maintain qualification with ERCOT to provide RRS or ECRS, each Load Resource, excluding Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), will be subject to a Load interruption test at a date and time determined by ERCOT and known only to ERCOT and the affected Transmission Service Provider (TSP), to verify the ability to respond to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  To successfully pass this test, within ten minutes of the receipt of the ERCOT Dispatch Instruction by the Load Resource’s QSE, the Load Resource’s response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(a)	The Resource’s Responsibility for ECRS and RRS; or
(b)	The requested MW deployment.
The requested MW deployment will be the sum of the Resource’s Responsibility for ECRS and RRS and the telemetered additional capacity between the net power consumption and the Low Power Consumption (LPC).  If a Load Resource has responded to an actual ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with (a) and (b) above in the rolling 365-day period, ERCOT will use that response in lieu of a Load interruption test.  If a Load Resource has not responded to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with (a) and (b) above, either in a deployment event or a Load interruption test, in any rolling 365-day period, it is subject to a Load interruption test by ERCOT.  QSEs may request to have individual Load Resources aggregated for the purposes of Load interruption tests.  All performance evaluations will apply on an individual Resource basis.
(9)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Load Resource, excluding CLRs, for failure to comply with the required performance standards, based on the evaluation it performed under paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.1.4.2, Responsive Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria, or under paragraph (1)(b) of Section 8.1.1.4.4, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment.  Specifically, if a Load Resource that is providing RRS or ECRS fails to respond with at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS or ECRS within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction, that response shall be considered a failure.  Two Load Resource performance failures, either in a deployment event or a Load interruption test, within any rolling 365-day period shall result in disqualification of that Load Resource.  After six months of disqualification, the Load Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Load Resource successfully passes a new Load interruption test as specified in this Section 8.1.1.1.
(10)	To maintain qualification with ERCOT to provide RRS from Fast Frequency Response (FFR), each Resource will be subject to an FFR qualification test at a date and time determined by ERCOT and known only to ERCOT and the affected TSP as applicable, to verify the ability to respond to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  To successfully pass this test, within ten minutes of the receipt of the ERCOT Dispatch Instruction by the Resource’s QSE, the Resource’s response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 105% of the lesser of the following:
(a)	The Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS; or
(b)	The MW deployment.
The requested MW deployment for Resources capable of FFR will be the sum of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS and the additional capacity between the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) and the telemetered Low Sustained Limit (LSL).  If a Resource has responded to an actual event in compliance with items (a) and (b) above in the rolling 365-day period, ERCOT will use that response in lieu of an FFR test.  If a Resource has not responded to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with items (a) and (b) above, in either a deployment event or an FFR test, in any rolling 365-day period, it is subject to an FFR test by ERCOT.  All performance evaluations will apply on an individual Resource basis.
(11)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Resource providing FFR if that Resource has two Resource performance failures, either in a manual deployment event or a frequency triggered event, within any rolling 365-day period.  A performance failure is defined as a response less than 95% or more than 105% of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS within 15 cycles of a triggering event or within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  This shall result in disqualification of that Resource.  After six months of disqualification, a Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Resource successfully passes a new test as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.2, Responsive Reserve Qualification.
[NPRR963, NPRR1011, and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of Section 8.1.1.1 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR963 or NPRR1188; or upon system implementation of Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011:]
8.1.1.1	Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing
(1)	Each QSE and the Resource providing Ancillary Service must meet qualification criteria to operate satisfactorily with ERCOT.  ERCOT shall use the Ancillary Service qualification and testing program that is approved by TAC and included in the Operating Guides.  Each QSE for the Resources that it represents may only provide Ancillary Services on those Resources for which it has met the qualification criteria.
(2)	General capacity testing must be used to verify a Resource’s Net Dependable Capability.  Qualification tests allow the Resource and QSE to demonstrate the minimum capabilities necessary to deploy an Ancillary Service.  
(3)	A Resource may be provisionally qualified for a period of 90 days and may be eligible to participate as a Resource providing Ancillary Service.  Resources that have installed the appropriate equipment with verifiable testing data may be provisionally qualified as providers of Ancillary Service. 
(4)	A Load Resource may be provisionally qualified for a period of 90 days to participate as a Resource providing Ancillary Service, if the Load Resource is metered with an Interval Data Recorder (IDR) to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction.  A Load Resource providing Ancillary Service in Real-Time must meet the following requirements:
(a)	Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) registration of Load Resources providing Ancillary Service by the QSE; and
(b)	Load Resource telemetry is installed and tested between QSE and ERCOT.
(5)	Provisional qualification as described herein may be revoked by ERCOT at any time for any non-compliance with provisional qualification requirements.
(6)	For those Settlement Intervals during which a Generation Resource, Load Resource, or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) behind the Resource Node is engaged in testing in accordance with this Section, the provisions of Section 6.6.5, Set Point Deviation Charge, will not apply to the Resource being tested beginning with the Settlement Interval immediately preceding the Settlement Interval in which ERCOT issues a Dispatch Instruction that begins the test and continuing until the end of the Settlement Interval in which the test completes.  During the same Settlement Intervals for the testing period, the Generation Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP), Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance (CLREDP), or Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance (ESREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, will not apply. 
(7)	ERCOT may reduce the amount a Resource may contribute toward Ancillary Service if it determines unsatisfactory performance of the Resource as defined in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards.
(8)	To maintain qualification with ERCOT to provide RRS or ECRS service, each Load Resource, excluding Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), will be subject to a Load interruption test at a date and time determined by ERCOT and known only to ERCOT and the affected Transmission Service Provider (TSP), to verify the ability to respond to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  To successfully pass this test, within ten minutes of the receipt of the ERCOT Dispatch Instruction by the Load Resource’s QSE, the Load Resource’s response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(a)	The Resource’s ECRS and RRS awards, or
(b)	The requested MW deployment.
	The requested MW deployment will be the sum of the Resource’s ECRS and RRS awards, and the telemetered additional capacity between the net power consumption and the Low Power Consumption (LPC).  If a Load Resource has responded to an actual ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with (a) and (b) above in the rolling 365-day period, ERCOT will use that response in lieu of a Load interruption test.  If a Load Resource has not responded to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with (a) and (b) above, either in a deployment event or a Load interruption test, in any rolling 365-day period, it is subject to a Load interruption test by ERCOT.  QSEs may request to have individual Load Resources aggregated for the purposes of Load interruption tests.  All performance evaluations will apply on an individual Resource basis.
(9)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Load Resource, excluding CLRs, for failure to comply with the required performance standards, based on the evaluation it performed under paragraph (5) of Section 8.1.1.4.2, Responsive Reserve Energy Deployment Criteria or under paragraph (1)(c) of Section 8.1.1.4.4, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  Specifically, if a Load Resource that is providing RRS or ECRS fails to respond with at least 95% of its ECRS or RRS award within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction, that response shall be considered a failure.  Two Load Resource performance failures, either in a deployment event or a Load interruption test, within any rolling 365-day period shall result in disqualification of that Load Resource.  After six months of disqualification, the Load Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Load Resource successfully passes a new Load interruption test as specified in this Section 8.1.1.1.
(10)	To maintain qualification with ERCOT to provide RRS from Fast Frequency Response (FFR), each Resource will be subject to an FFR qualification test at a date and time determined by ERCOT and known only to ERCOT and the affected TSP as applicable, to verify the ability to respond to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  To successfully pass this test, within ten minutes of the receipt of the ERCOT Dispatch Instruction by the Resource’s QSE, the Resource’s response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 105% of the lesser of the following:
(a)	The Resource’s RRS award; or
(b)	The MW deployment.
The requested MW deployment for Resources capable of FFR will be the sum of the Resource’s RRS award and the additional capacity between the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) and the telemetered Low Sustained Limit (LSL).  If a Resource has responded to an actual event in compliance with items (a) and (b) above in the rolling 365-day period, ERCOT will use that response in lieu of an FFR test.  If a Resource has not responded to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with items (a) and (b) above, in either a deployment event or an FFR test, in any rolling 365-day period, it is subject to an FFR test by ERCOT.  All performance evaluations will apply on an individual Resource basis.
(11)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Resource providing FFR if that Resource has two Resource performance failures, either in a manual deployment event or a frequency triggered event, within any rolling 365-day period.  A performance failure is defined as a response less than 95% or more than 105% of the Resource’s RRS award within 15 cycles of a triggering event or within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  This shall result in disqualification of that Resource.  After six months of disqualification, a Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Resource successfully passes a new test as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.2, Responsive Reserve Qualification.
8.1.1.2	General Capacity Testing Requirements
(1)	Within the first 15 days of each Season, each QSE shall provide ERCOT a Seasonal HSL for any Generation Resource with a capacity greater than ten MW that will be operated during that Season.  ERCOT shall provide an appropriate form for QSEs to submit their Seasonal HSL data.  The Seasonal HSL form shall take into account auxiliary Load and gross and net real power capability of the Generation Resource.  Each QSE shall update its COP and telemetry, as necessary, to reflect the HSL of each of its Generation Resources in a given operating interval as well as other operational limitations.  The HSL shown in the COP for a Generation Resource may not be ramp rate-limited while the Real-Time telemetered value of HSL for the Generation Resource may be ramp rate-limited by the QSE representing the Generation Resource in order for the Generation Resource to meet its HSL using the testing process described in paragraph (2) below. 
(2)	To verify that the HSL reported by telemetry is achievable, ERCOT may, at its discretion, conduct an unannounced Generation Resource test.  At a time determined solely by ERCOT, ERCOT will issue a Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the QSE to operate the designated Generation Resource at its HSL as shown in the QSE’s telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  The QSE shall immediately upon receiving the VDI release all Ancillary Service Obligations carried by the unit to be tested and shall telemeter Resource Status as “ONTEST.”  The QSE shall not be required to start the designated Generation Resource if it is not already On-Line when ERCOT announces its intent to test the Resource.  If the designated Generation Resource is operating at its LSL when ERCOT sends the VDI to begin the test, the QSE shall have up to 60 minutes to allow the Resource to reach 90% of its HSL as shown by telemetry and up to an additional 20 minutes for the Resource to reach the HSL shown by telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  This time requirement does not apply to nuclear-fueled Generation Resources.  If the designated Generation Resource is operating between its LSL and 50% of its HSL shown by telemetry when ERCOT begins the test, the QSE shall have 60 minutes for the Resource to reach its HSL.  If the Resource is operating at or above 50% of its HSL shown by telemetry when ERCOT begins the test, the QSE shall have 30 minutes for the Resource to reach its HSL.  Once the designated Generation Resource reaches its HSL, the QSE shall hold it at that output level for a minimum of 30 minutes.  The HSL for the designated Generation Resource shall be determined based on the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered by the Resource during the 30 minutes of constant output.  After each test, the QSE representing the Generation Resource will complete and submit the test form using the Net Dependable Capability and Reactive Capability (NDCRC) application located on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within two Business Days.
[NPRR1011:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	To verify that the HSL reported by telemetry is achievable, ERCOT may, at its discretion, conduct an unannounced Generation Resource test.  At a time determined solely by ERCOT, ERCOT will issue a Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the QSE to operate the designated Generation Resource at its HSL as shown in the QSE’s telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  Immediately upon receiving the VDI, the QSE shall telemeter Resource Status as “ONTEST.”  The QSE shall not be required to start the designated Generation Resource if it is not already On-Line when ERCOT announces its intent to test the Resource.  If the designated Generation Resource is operating at its LSL when ERCOT sends the VDI to begin the test, the QSE shall have up to 60 minutes to allow the Resource to reach 90% of its HSL as shown by telemetry and up to an additional 20 minutes for the Resource to reach the HSL shown by telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  This time requirement does not apply to nuclear-fueled Generation Resources.  If the designated Generation Resource is operating between its LSL and 50% of its HSL shown by telemetry when ERCOT begins the test, the QSE shall have 60 minutes for the Resource to reach its HSL.  If the Resource is operating at or above 50% of its HSL shown by telemetry when ERCOT begins the test, the QSE shall have 30 minutes for the Resource to reach its HSL.  Once the designated Generation Resource reaches its HSL, the QSE shall hold it at that output level for a minimum of 30 minutes.  The HSL for the designated Generation Resource shall be determined based on the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered by the Resource during the 30 minutes of constant output.  After each test, the QSE representing the Generation Resource will complete and submit the test form using the Net Dependable Capability and Reactive Capability (NDCRC) application located on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within two Business Days.
(3)	ERCOT may test multiple Generation Resources within a single QSE within a single 24-hour period.  However, in no case shall ERCOT test more than two Generation Resources within one QSE simultaneously.  All Resources On-Line in a Combined-Cycle Configuration will be measured on an aggregate capacity basis.  All QSEs associated with a jointly owned unit will be tested simultaneously.  Hydro, wind, and PhotoVoltaic (PV) generation will be excluded from unannounced generation capacity testing.  ERCOT shall not perform an unannounced Generation Resource test during a Watch or Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) event.  If an unannounced Generation Resource test is underway when a Watch or EEA event commences, ERCOT may cancel the test.
(4)	Should the designated Generation Resource fail to reach its HSL shown in its telemetry within the time frame set forth herein, the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered during the test shall be the basis for the new HSL for the designated Generation Resource for that Season.  The QSE shall have the opportunity to request another test as quickly as possible (at a time determined by ERCOT) and may retest up to two times per month.  The QSE may also demonstrate an increased value of HSL by operating the Generation Resource at an Output Schedule for at least 30 minutes.  In order to raise an Output Schedule above the Seasonal HSL, the QSE may set the Resource telemetered HSL equal to its output temporarily for the purposes of the demonstration tests.  After either a retest or a demonstration test, the MW capability of the Generation Resource based on the average of the MW production telemetered during the test shall be the basis for the new HSL for the designated Generation Resource for that Season.  Any requested retest must take place within three Business Days after the request for retest.
(5)	The telemetered value of HSL for the Generation Resource shall only be used for testing purposes as described in this Section or for system reliability calculations. 
(6)	A Resource Entity owning a Generation Resource operating in the synchronous condenser fast response mode to provide RRS or ECRS shall evaluate the maximum capability of the Resource each Season. 
(7)	ERCOT shall maintain historical records of unannounced Generation Resource test results, using the information contained therein to adjust the Reserve Discount Factor (RDF) subject to the approval of the appropriate TAC subcommittee.  ERCOT shall report to the Reliability and Operations Subcommittee (ROS) annually or as requested by ROS the aggregated results of such unannounced testing (excluding retests), including, but not limited to, the number and total capacity of Resources tested, the percentage of Resources that met or exceeded their HSL reported by telemetry, the percentage that failed to meet their HSL reported by telemetry, and the total MW capacity shortfall of those Resources that failed to meet their HSL reported by telemetry.
(8)	QSEs who receive a VDI to operate the designated Generation Resource for an unannounced Generation Resource test may be considered for additional compensation under Section 6.6.9, Emergency Operations Settlement.  Any unannounced Generation Resource test VDI that ERCOT issues as a result of a QSE-requested retest will not be considered for additional compensation under Section 6.6.9.
(9)	All unannounced Generation Resource test VDIs will be considered as an instructed deviation for compliance purposes.
(10)	Before the start of each Season, a QSE shall provide ERCOT a list identifying each Controllable Load Resource that is expected to operate in a Season as a provider of Ancillary Service.  Prior to the beginning of each Season, QSEs shall identify the Controllable Load Resources to be tested during the Season and the specific week of the test if known.  Any Controllable Load Resource for which the QSE desires qualification to provide Ancillary Services shall have its Net Dependable Capability verified prior to providing Ancillary Services.
(11)	ERCOT shall verify the telemetry attributes of each qualified Load Resource as follows:
(a)	ERCOT shall annually verify the telemetry attributes of each Load Resource providing RRS or ECRS using a high-set under-frequency relay.  In addition, once every two years, any Load Resource qualified to provide RRS or ECRS using a high-set under-frequency relay shall test the correct operation of the under-frequency relay or the output from the solid-state switch, whichever applies.  However, if a Load Resource’s performance has been verified through response to an actual event, the data from the event can be used to meet the annual telemetry verification requirement for that year and the biennial relay-testing requirement. 
(b)	ERCOT shall periodically validate the telemetry attributes of each Controllable Load Resource.  In the case of an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR), ERCOT will follow the validation procedures described in  Section 22, Attachment O, Requirements for Aggregate Load Resource Participation in the ERCOT Markets.  If a QSE fails to meet its telemetry validation requirements, ERCOT may suspend the QSE and/or the Controllable Load Resource from participation in the applicable services or markets.  If disqualified pursuant to this paragraph, a QSE or Controllable Load Resource may reestablish its qualification by submitting a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and by successfully passing a new ERCOT telemetry validation test.  
(12)	Telemetry values of a Load Resource may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses, based on the ERCOT-forecasted Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs).  Load Resources may be adjusted for Distribution Losses using the same distribution loss code as assigned to the ESI ID.    
(13)	A specific Load Resource to be used for the first time to provide Regulation Service, RRS, ECRS, Non-Spin, or energy by following Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) Base Points, must be tested to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction using actual Demand response as part of its qualification.  The test must take place at a time mutually selected by the QSE representing the Load Resource and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall make available its standard test document for Load Resource qualification required under this Section on the ERCOT website.
(14)	Any changes to a Load Resource including changes to its capability to provide Ancillary Service requires updates by the Load Resource to the registration information detailing the change.  For Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs) representing specific Load Resources that are located behind the NOIE Settlement Metering points, the NOIE shall provide an alternative unique descriptor of the qualified Load Resource for ERCOT’s records.
(15)	Qualification of a Resource, including a Load Resource, remains valid for that Resource in the event of a change of QSE for the Resource, provided that the new QSE demonstrates to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the new QSE has adequate communications and control capability for the Resource.
(16)	For purposes of qualifying Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs), ERCOT shall issue a unit-specific VDI for the MW amount that the QSE is requesting to qualify its QSGR to provide.  The QSE shall telemeter an ONTEST Resource Status.  The QSGR will only be qualified to provide an amount not to exceed the observed output at the end of a ten-minute test period. 
(17)	ERCOT may revoke the QSGR qualification of any QSGR for failure to comply with the following performance standard:
(a)	A QSGR, available for deployment by SCED, is deemed to have failed to start for the purpose of this performance measure if the QSGR fails to achieve at least 90% of the minimum ERCOT SCED Base Point, including zero Base Points, within ten minutes of the initial ERCOT SCED Base Point that dispatched the QSGR above zero MW output.
(b)	ERCOT may revoke a QSGR’s qualification if within a rolling 90-day period the number of QSGR failures to start, as determined by paragraph (a) above, exceeds the higher of three failures or 10% of the number of quick start mode startups made in response to SCED deployments.
(18)	If disqualified pursuant to paragraph (17) above, a QSGR may reestablish its QSGR qualification by submitting a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and by successfully passing a new ERCOT QSGR test.
(19)	If an Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is telemetering a non-zero ECRS Ancillary Service Responsibility and/or non-zero Non-Spin Ancillary Service Responsibility, to verify that the Ancillary Service Responsibility reported by telemetry is achievable based on the state of charge the Resource is maintaining in Real-Time, ERCOT may, at its discretion, conduct an unannounced ECRS/Non-Spin capability test.  At a time determined solely by ERCOT, ERCOT will issue a VDI to the QSE to operate the designated ESR an output level that delivers the total state of charge the ESR was obligated to provide based on sum of the ECRS Ancillary Service Responsibility and Non-Spin Ancillary Service Responsibility as shown in the ESR’s telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  The QSE shall immediately upon receiving the VDI release all Ancillary Service Obligations carried by the ESR to be tested and shall telemeter Resource Status as “ONTEST.”  Once the designated ESR reaches the target output level, the QSE shall hold at that output level for a minimum duration required to verify ESR’s state of charge capability to meet the ECRS Ancillary Service Responsibility and Non-Spin Ancillary Service Responsibility.  The two-hour and/or four-hour capability for the designated ESR shall be determined based on the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered by the Resource during the constant output (i.e., hold) phase of the test.  After each test, the QSE representing the ESR will complete and submit the test form using the NDCRC application located on the MIS Secure Area within two Business Days.  Should the designated ESR fail to demonstrate the state of charge level needed to meet the sum of ECRS Ancillary Service Responsibility and Non-Spin Ancillary Service Responsibility shown in its telemetry within the time frame set forth herein, the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered during the test shall be the basis for the ECRS and Non-Spin capacity that the Resource may provide.  The QSE shall have the opportunity to request another test as quickly as possible (at a time determined by ERCOT) and may retest up to two times per month.  After either a retest or a demonstration test, the average of the MW output telemetered during the test shall be the basis for the new ECRS and Non-Spin capability for the designated ESR.  Any requested retest must take place within three Business Days after the request for retest or a mutually agreeable date.
8.1.1.2.1	Ancillary Service Technical Requirements and Qualification Criteria and Test Methods
(1)	A QSE and the Resource that it represents must be qualified to provide Ancillary Services.  ERCOT shall develop and operate a qualification and testing program that meets the requirements of this Section for each Ancillary Service.  Prior to the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date, a QSE and the Resources that it represents that are qualified to provide an Ancillary Service in accordance with an effective Protocol, are deemed to be qualified to provide Ancillary Services after the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date, provided that the QSE and the Resource have been certified capable of providing an Ancillary Service by a responsible Market Participant, as determined by ERCOT.  Resources that are thus certified to provide Ancillary Services and that have a performance history determined in accordance with this Section, and that fail to meet the performance metrics described in this Section on the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date, or thereafter, will be required to qualify in accordance with this Section before providing the Ancillary Service. 
(2)	A QSE and the Resource that it represents must be qualified in accordance with this Section as an Ancillary Service and reserve provider and at ERCOT’s discretion will be required to re-qualify to provide Ancillary Service or reserve if acceptable performance as determined in accordance with this Section has not been maintained.
[NPRR1011:  Insert paragraph (3) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	The qualification process for a Resource to provide Ancillary Service will determine whether the Resource is capable of providing Ancillary Service and the maximum quantity of Ancillary Service that the Resource is qualified to provide.  ERCOT may update the maximum quantity of RRS a Resource is qualified to provide based on actual performance of the Resource in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2.1.2, Responsive Reserve Service Qualification.
8.1.1.2.1.1	Regulation Service Qualification
(1)	A QSE control system must be capable of receiving Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) and Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) control signals from ERCOT’s Load Frequency Control (LFC) system, and of directing its Resources to respond to the control signals, in an upward and downward direction to balance Real-Time Demand and Resources.  A QSE providing Reg-Up or Reg-Down shall provide communications equipment to receive telemetered control deployments of power from ERCOT.   
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(1)	A QSE control system must be capable of receiving Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) and Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) control signals from ERCOT’s Load Frequency Control (LFC) system, and of directing its Resources to respond to the control signals, in an upward and downward direction to balance Real-Time Demand and Resources.  A QSE representing Resources qualified to provide Reg-Up or Reg-Down shall provide communications equipment to receive telemetered control deployments of power from ERCOT.
(2) 	A QSE shall demonstrate to ERCOT that they have the ability to switch control to constant frequency operation as specified in the Operating Guides.  ERCOT’s direction to the QSE to operate on constant frequency will be considered a Dispatch Instruction.   
(3) 	A QSE providing Reg-Up or Reg-Down shall provide ERCOT with the data requirements of Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements.  Resources providing Reg-Up or Reg-Down must be capable of delivering the full amount of regulating capacity offered to ERCOT within five minutes.  
(4)	A Resource providing Fast Responding Regulation Service (FRRS) shall be capable of independently detecting and recording system frequency with an accuracy of at least one mHz and a resolution of no less than 32 samples per second.  The Resource shall also be capable of measuring and recording MW output with a resolution of no less than 32 samples per second.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1014:  Delete paragraph (4) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly.]
(5)	A Reg-Up and Reg-Down qualification test for each Resource is conducted during a continuous 60-minute period agreed on in advance by the QSE and ERCOT.  QSEs may qualify a Resource to provide Reg-Up or Reg-Down, or both, in separate testing.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.
(b)	For the 60-minute duration of the test, when market and reliability conditions allow, the ERCOT Control Area Operator shall send a random sequence of increasing ramp, hold, and decreasing ramp control signals to the QSE for a specific Resource.  ERCOT shall maintain a duration interval, for each increasing ramp, hold, or decreasing ramp sequence, of no less than two minutes.  The control signals may not request Resource performance beyond the HSL, LSL, and ramp rate limit agreed on prior to the test.  During the test, ERCOT shall structure the test sequence such that at least one five-minute test interval is used to test the Resource’s ability to achieve the entire amount of Reg-Up or Reg-Down requested for qualification.  
(c)	ERCOT shall measure and record the average real power output for each minute of the Resource(s) being tested represented by the QSE.  During at least one five minute duration interval selected to evaluate each of the Reg-Up and Reg-Down amounts being tested, the Generation/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP/CLREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, over the entire five minute interval must be less than or equal to 3.5%.  Additionally, in all other test sequence intervals, the Resource’s measured GREDP/CLREDP must be less than or equal to 5% as calculated for the entire duration of each test interval.
[NPRR963 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	ERCOT shall measure and record the average real power output for each minute of the Resource(s) being tested represented by the QSE.  
(i) 	During at least one five minute duration interval selected to evaluate each of the Reg-Up and Reg-Down amounts being tested, the Generation/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP/CLREDP/ESREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, over the entire five minute interval must be less than or equal to 3.5%.  
(ii) 	Additionally, in all other test sequence intervals, the Resource’s measured GREDP/CLREDP/ESREDP must be less than or equal to 5% as calculated for the entire duration of each test interval.
(iii)	During at least one five-minute duration interval selected to evaluate each of the Reg-Up and Reg-Down amounts being tested, the Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance (ESREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, over the entire five minute interval must be less than or equal to 3.0%.  
(iv)	For an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), in all other test sequence intervals, the Resource’s measured ESREDP must be less than or equal to 3.0% as calculated for the entire duration of each test interval.
(d)	On successful demonstration of the above test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing Regulation Service and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource.
(6)	A QSE may also qualify a Resource to provide Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up), Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down), or both.  In addition to the test criteria described in paragraph (5) above, ERCOT shall verify the following capabilities through testing:
(a)	The Resource will be required to demonstrate that it can deploy within 60 cycles of either (i) receipt of a deployment signal from ERCOT, or (ii) a deviation of frequency in excess of +/-0.09 Hz from 60 Hz.
(b)	Upon deployment, the Resource will be required to demonstrate that it can sustain the deployment for a minimum of eight minutes at a minimum level of 95% and a maximum level of 110% of the proposed maximum capacity obligation.
(c)	ERCOT shall use the Resource’s high-resolution recorded frequency and MW output data to determine whether the Resource met its performance obligations during the test.
(d)	On successful demonstration of the above test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing FRRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource.
(e) 	A QSE representing a Resource qualified to provide FRRS shall not offer to provide more FRRS than the maximum capacity obligation that the Resource is qualified to provide, as shown in the certificate provided to the QSE and the Resource.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(5)	The maximum quantity of Reg-Up or Reg-Down that an individual Resource is qualified to provide is limited to the amount of Ancillary Service that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.
8.1.1.2.1.2	Responsive Reserve Qualification
(1)	RRS may be provided by:  
(a)	On-Line Generation Resource capacity; 
(b)	Resources capable of providing FFR;
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode;
(d)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays; and
(e)	Controllable Load Resources (CLRs).
(2)	The amount of RRS provided by individual Generation Resources or CLRs is limited by the ERCOT-calculated maximum MW amount of RRS for the Generation Resource or CLR subject to its verified droop performance as described in the Nodal Operating Guide.  The default value for any newly qualified Generation Resource or CLR shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide.
(3)	A QSE’s Load Resource must be loaded and capable of unloading the scheduled amount of RRS within ten minutes of instruction by ERCOT and must either be immediately responsive to system frequency or be interrupted by action of under-frequency relays with settings as specified by the Operating Guides.
(4)	Any QSE providing RRS shall provide communications equipment to provide ERCOT with telemetry for the output of the Resource.
(5)	Resources capable of FFR providing RRS must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status and status of the frequency detection device. 
(6)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility.  Each Resource providing RRS must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(7)	Generation Resources providing RRS shall have their Governors in service.
(8)	Generation Resources and Resources capable of FFR providing RRS shall have a Governor droop setting that is no greater than 5.0%.  
(9)	Resources may be provisionally qualified by ERCOT to provide RRS for 90 days.  Within the 90-day provisional window, a Resource must successfully complete one of the Governor tests identified in the Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment C, Turbine Governor Speed Tests, before being declared fully qualified to provide RRS.
(10)	A qualification test for each Resource to provide RRS is conducted during a continuous eight-hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	At any time during the window, which is selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE, ERCOT shall notify the QSE that it is to provide an amount of RRS from its Resource to be qualified equal to the amount for which the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For Generation Resources desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall monitor the QSE’s telemetry of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Schedule for an update within 15 seconds.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2, Responsive Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide RRS.
(c)	For CLRs desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the CLR given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the CLR’s qualification to provide RRS.  
(d)	For Load Resources, excluding CLRs, desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2.
(e)	On successful demonstration of all test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing RRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource Entity.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of Section 8.1.1.2.1.2 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1014; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011:]
8.1.1.2.1.2	Responsive Reserve Qualification
(1)	RRS may be provided by:  
(a)	On-Line Generation Resource capacity; 
(b)	Resources capable of providing FFR;
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode;
(d)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays;
(e) 	 Controllable Load Resources (CLRs); and
(f) 	Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).
(2)	The amount of RRS provided by individual Generation Resources, CLRs, or ESRs is limited by the ERCOT-calculated maximum MW amount of RRS for the Generation Resource, CLR, or ESR subject to its verified droop performance as described in the Nodal Operating Guide.  The default value for any newly qualified Generation Resource, CLR, or ESR shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide.
(3)	A QSE’s Load Resource must be loaded and capable of unloading the scheduled amount of RRS within ten minutes of instruction by ERCOT and must either be immediately responsive to system frequency or be interrupted by action of under-frequency relays with settings as specified by the Operating Guides.
(4)	Any QSE representing a Resource qualified to provide RRS shall provide communications equipment to provide ERCOT with telemetry for the output of the Resource.
(5)	Resources capable of FFR providing RRS must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status and status of the frequency detection device. 
(6)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the RRS award.  Each Resource providing RRS must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(7)	Generation Resources offering to provide RRS shall have their Governors in service.
(8)	Generation Resources and Resources capable of FFR providing RRS shall have a Governor droop setting that is no greater than 5.0%.  
(9)	Resources may be provisionally qualified by ERCOT to provide RRS for 90 days.  Within the 90-day provisional window, a Resource must successfully complete one of the Governor tests identified in the Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment C, Turbine Governor Speed Tests, before being declared fully qualified to provide RRS.
(10)	For Resources providing RRS and available for dispatch by SCED, the maximum quantity of RRS that a Resource is qualified to provide is limited to the amount of RRS that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.  For all other Resources excluding non-CLRs providing FFR, the maximum quantity of RRS that a Resource is qualified to provide is limited to the amount of RRS that can be sustained by the Resource for at least one hour.  The maximum quantity of FFR that any non-CLR qualified to provide FFR is limited to the amount of FFR that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.
(11)	A qualification test for each Resource to provide RRS is conducted during a continuous eight-hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	At any time during the window, which is selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE, ERCOT shall notify the QSE that it is to provide an amount of RRS from its Resource to be qualified equal to the amount for which the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For Generation Resources desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall monitor the QSE’s telemetry of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Schedule for an update within 15 seconds.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2, Responsive Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide RRS.
(c)	For CLRs desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the CLR given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the CLR’s qualification to provide RRS.  
(d)	For Load Resources, excluding CLRs, desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2.
(e)	On successful demonstration of all test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing RRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource Entity.
8.1.1.2.1.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Qualification
(1)	Each Resource providing Non-Spin must be capable of being synchronized and ramped to its Ancillary Service Schedule for Non-Spin within 30 minutes.  Non-Spin may be provided from Generation Resource capacity that can ramp within 30 minutes or Load Resources capable of unloading within 30 minutes.  Non-Spin may only be provided from capacity that is not fulfilling any other energy or capacity commitment.
(2)	A Load Resource providing Non-Spin must provide a telemetered output signal. 
(3)	Each Generation Resource and Load Resource providing Non-Spin must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(4)	QSEs using a Controllable Load Resource to provide Non-Spin must be capable of responding to ERCOT Dispatch Instructions in a similar manner to QSEs using Generation Resource to provide Non-Spin.
(5)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility.  Each Generation Resource and Controllable Load Resource providing Non-Spin must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(6)	For any Resource requesting qualification for Non-Spin, a qualification test for each Resource to provide Non-Spin is conducted during a continuous eight hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE. ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements. 
(a)	At any time during the window (selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE), ERCOT shall notify the QSE by using the messaging system and requesting that the QSE provide an amount of Non-Spin from each  Resource equal to the amount for which the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For Generation Resources: during the test window, ERCOT shall send a message to the QSE representing a Generation Resources to deploy Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall monitor the adjustment of the Generation Resource’s Non-Spin Ancillary Service Schedule within five minutes for Resources On-Line.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.3, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide Non-Spin.
(c)	For Load Resources, ERCOT shall send an instruction to deploy Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall measure the Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.3.
[NPRR1011:  Replace Section 8.1.1.2.1.3 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
8.1.1.2.1.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Qualification
(1)	Each Off-Line Resource being offered in to provide Non-Spin must be capable of being synchronized and ramped to its Ancillary Service award for Non-Spin within 30 minutes.  Non-Spin may be provided from Generation Resource capacity that can ramp within 30 minutes or Load Resources capable of unloading within 30 minutes.  Non-Spin may only be provided from capacity that is not fulfilling any other energy or capacity commitment.
(2)	All Resources qualified to participate in SCED are also qualified to provide Non-Spin when the Resource is On-Line.  The amount of Non-Spin for which the Resource is qualified when On-Line is limited to the amount of capacity that can be ramped or unloaded within 30 minutes.
(3)	A Controllable Load Resource offering to provide Non-Spin must be qualified to participate in SCED and must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status. 
(4)	Each Resource providing Non-Spin when Off-Line or providing Non-Spin as a Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(5)	QSEs using a Controllable Load Resource to provide Non-Spin must be capable of responding to ERCOT Dispatch Instructions in a similar manner to QSEs using Generation Resource to provide Non-Spin.
(6)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service award.
(7)	For any Resource requesting qualification for providing Non-Spin when Off-Line or providing Non-Spin as a Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource, a qualification test for each Resource to provide Non-Spin is conducted during a continuous eight hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE. ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements. 
(a)	At any time during the window (selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE), ERCOT shall notify the QSE by using the messaging system and requesting that the QSE provide an amount of Non-Spin from each  Resource equal to the amount for which the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For the Resources being tested during the test window, ERCOT shall send a message to the QSE representing a Resource to deploy Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.3, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide Non-Spin.
(8)	The maximum quantity of Non-Spin that an individual Resource is qualified to provide is limited to the amount of Non-Spin that can be sustained by the Resource for at least one hour.
8.1.1.2.1.4	Voltage Support Service Qualification
(1)	The Resource Entity must verify and maintain its stated Reactive Power capability for each of its Generation Resources and ESRs providing Voltage Support Service (VSS), as required by the Operating Guides.  Generation Resources and ESRs providing VSS reactive capability limits shall be specified as follows:  lagging reactive capability should be specified using the Summer/Fall voltage profile, and leading capability specified using the Winter/Spring voltage profile.
(2)	The Resource Entity shall conduct reactive capacity qualification tests to verify the maximum leading and lagging reactive capability of all Generation Resources and ESRs required to provide VSS.  Reactive capability tests are performed during the resource commissioning process and at a minimum of once every five years or within 12 months following the discovery of a change that affects its real power or Reactive Power capability by more than 10% of the last value provided by the Resource Entity via the Resource Registration process and is expected to last more than six months.  Mothballed Generation Resources or ESRs that have not been tested within the last five years shall be verified within 12 calendar months upon return to service.  ERCOT may require additional testing if it has information indicating that current data is inaccurate.  The Resource Entity is not obligated to place Generation Resources or ESRs On-Line solely for the purposes of testing.  The reactive capability tests must be conducted at a time agreed to in advance by the Resource Entity, its QSE, the applicable TSP, and ERCOT.
(3)	Leading and lagging reactive operating limits must be demonstrated following the reactive power verification test procedure as more fully described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 3.3.2, Unit Reactive Capability Requirements.
(4)	The Resource Entity shall perform the Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR) tests and shall supply AVR data as specified in the Operating Guides.  The AVR tests must be performed on initial qualification.  The AVR tests must be conducted at a time agreed on in advance by the Resource Entity, its QSE, the applicable TSP, and ERCOT.
8.1.1.2.1.5	System Black Start Capability Qualification and Testing
(1)	A Resource is qualified to be a Black Start Resource if it has met the following requirements:
(a)	Verified control communication path performance;
(b)	Verified primary and alternate voice circuits for receipt of instructions;
(c)	Passed the “Basic Starting Test” as defined below;
(d)	Passed the “Line-Energizing Test” as defined below; 
(e)	Passed the “Load-Carrying Test” as defined below; 
(f)	Passed the “Next Start Resource Test” as defined below;
(g)	Provided an attestation, in the form required by ERCOT, of Black Start Service (BSS) Back-up Fuel that will support the Resource for a minimum of 72 hours at maximum output, except to the extent ERCOT has waived this requirement;
(h)	Passed the “BSS Back-up Fuel Switching Test” as defined below, unless ERCOT has waived the BSS Back-up Fuel requirement;
(i)	If not starting itself, has an ERCOT-approved firm standby power contract with deliverability under Blackout circumstances from a non-ERCOT Control Area that can be finalized upon selection as a Black Start Resource; 
(j)	If not starting itself, has an ERCOT approved agreement with the necessary TSPs for access to another power pool, for coordination of switching during a Blackout or Partial Blackout, for coordination of maintenance through the ERCOT Outage Scheduler for all non-redundant transmission startup feeds;
(k)	If dependent upon non-ERCOT transmission resources, agreements providing this Transmission Service have been provided in the proposal; and
(l)	Demonstrated to ERCOT’s satisfaction that the Resource has successfully completed remediation to any weather-related limitation disclosed as part of the BSS bid.
(2)	On successful demonstration of system BSS capability, ERCOT shall certify that the Black Start Resource is capable of providing system BSS capacity and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the Resource Entity of the Black Start Resource.  Qualification shall be valid for the time frames set forth below.  Except under extenuating circumstances, as reasonably determined by ERCOT, all qualification testing for the next year of BSS must be completed by June 1st of each year.  
(3)	ERCOT may limit the number of qualification retests allowed.  Qualification retesting is required only for the aspect of system BSS capability for which the Black Start Resource failed.  If a Black Start Resource under an existing Black Start Agreement does not successfully re-qualify within two months of failing a test described herein, ERCOT shall decertify the Black Start Resource for the remainder of the calendar year as described in Section 7, Black Start Decertification, of Section 22, Attachment D, Standard Form Black Start Agreement.  The following tests are required for BSS qualification:
(a)	The “Basic Starting Test” includes the following:
(i)	The basic ability of the Black Start Resource to start itself, or start from a normally open interconnection to another provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection, without support from the ERCOT System;
(ii)	Annual testing, either as a stand-alone test or part of the Line-Energizing and Load-Carrying Tests, and the test is performed during a one-week period agreed to in advance by the Black Start Resource and ERCOT and must not cause outage to ERCOT Customer Load or the availability of other Resources to the ERCOT market;
(iii)	Confirmation of the dates of the test with the Black Start Resource by ERCOT;
(iv)	Isolation of the Black Start Resource, including all auxiliary Loads, from the ERCOT System, except for the transmission that connects the Resource to a provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection if the startup power is supplied by a firm standby contract.  Black Start Resources starting with the assistance of a provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection through a firm standby agreement will connect to provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection, start-up, carry internal Load, disconnect from the provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection if not supplied through a black-start capable Direct Current Tie (DC Tie), and continue equivalently to what is required of other Black Start Resources;
(v)	The ability of the Black Start Resource to start without assistance from the ERCOT System, except for the transmission that connects the Resource to a provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection if the startup power is supplied by a firm standby contract; 
(vi)	The ability of the Black Start Resource to remain stable (in both frequency and voltage) while supplying only its own auxiliary Loads or Loads in the immediate area for at least 30 minutes; 
(vii)	The Black Start Resource must have verified that its Volts/Hz relay, over-excitation limiter, and under-excitation limiter are set properly and that no protection devices will trip the Black Start Resource within the required reactive range.  The Resource Entity for the Black Start Resource shall provide ERCOT with data to verify these settings; and
(viii)	Each Black Start Resource must pass a Basic Starting Test once each calendar year.
(b)	The “Line-Energizing Test” must be conducted at a time agreed on by the Black Start Resource, TSP or Distribution Service Provider (DSP), and ERCOT and includes the following:
(i)	Energizing transmission with the Black Start Resource when conditions permit as determined by the TSP or DSP but at least once every three years;
(ii)	De-energizing sufficient transmission in such manner that when energized by the Black Start Resource it demonstrates the Black Start Resource’s ability to energize enough transmission to deliver to the Loads the Resource’s output that ERCOT’s restoration plan requires the Black Start Resource to supply.  ERCOT shall be responsible for transmission connections and operations that are compatible with the capabilities of the Black Start Resource;
(iii)	Conducting a Basic Starting Test;
(iv)	Energizing transmission with the Black Start Resource of the previously de-energized transmission, while monitoring frequency and voltages at both ends of the line.  Alternatively, if ERCOT agrees, the transmission line may be connected to the Black Start Resource before starting, allowing the Resource to energize the line as it comes up to speed; 
(v)	Stable operation of the Black Start Resource (in both frequency and voltage) while supplying only its auxiliary Loads or external Loads for at least 30 minutes;
(vi)	This test may be performed together with the Basic Starting Test in one 30-minute interval; and
(vii)	Each Black Start Resource must pass a Line-Energizing Test once every three years.
(c)	The “Load-Carrying Test” shall utilize the Load agreed to between ERCOT, TSP and the Black Start Resource.  Testing shall occur as conditions permit, at a time agreed on by the Black Start Resource, TSP or DSP, and ERCOT, and includes the following:
(i)	Stable operation of the Black Start Resource (in both frequency and voltage) while supplying restoration power to Load that is not identified as auxiliary Load of the Resource and is allowed to be auxiliary Load of adjacent facilities; 
(ii)	Conducting a Basic Starting Test;
(iii)	Conducting a Line-Energizing Test when required; 
(iv)	Under the direction of ERCOT or the TSP operator, the Black Start Resource shall demonstrate the Black Start Resource’s capability to supply the required Load, while maintaining voltage and frequency for at least 30 minutes;
(v)	This test may be performed together with the Basic Starting Test and Line-Energizing Test when required in one 30-minute interval; and
(vi)	Qualification under the Load-Carrying Test is valid for four calendar years.
(d)	“Next Start Resource Test”:
(i)	The ability of a Black Start Resource to start up the next start unit’s largest required motor while continuing to remain stable and control voltage and frequency shall be tested.  This test shall be repeated when a new next start unit is selected;
(ii)	To pass the test: 
(A)	The potential Black Start Resource must start the next start unit (as determined by ERCOT), or start the next start unit’s largest required motor and satisfied the next start unit’s minimum startup Load requirements; or 
(B)	The Resource Entity shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of ERCOT through simulation studies conducted by the Resource Entity or a qualified third party, that the potential Black Start Resource is capable of starting the next start unit’s largest required motor while meeting the next start unit’s minimum startup Load requirements.  
(iii)	Potential Black Start Resources may request from ERCOT the information detailed in paragraph (B) above of the next start unit prior to the satisfaction of this requirement.  ERCOT shall request this information from the designated next start unit.  Such data, if requested by ERCOT, shall be provided by the QSE or Resource Entity representing the next start unit to ERCOT within 30 days.  Such information shall be considered Protected Information by the requesting Resource Entity;
(iv)	If a physical test is performed, the test shall commence with a Basic Starting Test, followed by a Line-Energizing Test when required and a Load-Carrying Test as a stand-alone test or part of the Next Start Resource Test;
(v)	If a physical test is performed, the Black Start Resource must remain stable (in both voltage and frequency) and controlling voltage for 30 minutes;
(vi)	If a physical test is performed, this test may be performed together with the Basic Starting Test, Line-Energizing Test when required, and Load-Carrying Test in one 30-minute interval; and
(vii)	Each Black Start Resource must pass the Next Start Resource Test once every four calendar years.
(e)	The “BSS Back-up Fuel Switching Test” shall:
(i)	Demonstrate a Black Start Resource’s ability to successfully switch to a BSS Back-up Fuel source;
(ii)	Demonstrate the ability of the Black Start Resource to start itself, or start from a normally open interconnection to another provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection, without support from the ERCOT System and while operating on the BSS Back-up Fuel source.  The Black Start Resource may start on its primary fuel source, if necessary, but must transition to the BSS Back-up Fuel source within the timeframe indicated in its proposal;
(iii)	Demonstrate the ability of the Black Start Resource to remain stable (in both frequency and voltage) while operating on BSS Back-up Fuel source and supplying only its own auxiliary Loads or Loads in the immediate area for at least ten minutes; and
(iv)	Demonstrate that there is a sufficient amount of BSS Back-up Fuel to satisfy the requirement in paragraph (10) of Section 3.14.2, Black Start.
(f)	The BSS Back-up Fuel Switching Test will be conducted on odd numbered years and may, at ERCOT’s discretion, also be:
(i)	Performed as part of the Basic Starting Test while operating on BSS Back-up Fuel; or 
(ii)	As a stand-alone test.
(4)	Each qualified Black Start Resource shall perform a Black Start Resource Availability Test quarterly unless the Black Start Resource has successfully started and operated at LSL or higher for at least four consecutive Settlement Intervals during the quarter.  The Black Start Resource’s cost to perform a Black Start Availability Test may be a component of the overall bid for BSS but ERCOT will not separately compensate QSEs representing Black Start Resources for such testing.  ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may grant an exemption of the Black Start Resource Availability Test for QSEs whose Black Start Resources have responded as instructed by ERCOT during an EEA event.
(5)	The Black Start Resource Availability Test shall be scheduled by ERCOT.  Upon receipt of notification for a Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall send confirmation to ERCOT of its intent to comply with the test or submit a request to reschedule along with justification for the request.
(6)	ERCOT shall provide the QSE representing the Black Start Resource two-hour notice in order to allow the QSE time to update its COP.  The QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall show the Resource as “ONTEST” in its COP and through its Real-Time telemetry for the duration of the test.  As part of the Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall start the Black Start Resource and operate it at or above its LSL for at least four consecutive Settlement Intervals.  After completion of the Black Start Resource Availability Test the QSE will update its COP to reflect their current status.
(7)	Upon completion of the Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall complete and file a Black Start Resource Availability Test report with ERCOT.  If the Black Start Resource wants to use a successful start and normal operation to satisfy the quarterly reporting requirement, it must provide the necessary information for the start and normal operation on a Black Start Resource Availability Test report.  The report form shall be provided by ERCOT.
(8)	A Black Start Resource Availability Test is deemed to be successful if the Black Start Resource comes On-Line within the time specified in the Black Start Resource’s Request for Proposal response submitted to ERCOT and operates at a minimum level as agreed to by ERCOT and the QSE representing the Black Start Resource for at least four consecutive Settlement Intervals.
(9)	If the Black Start Resource fails to successfully start during the Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall immediately update its Availability Plan for that Black Start Resource showing zero availability.  The QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall not receive the Hourly Standby Fee for BSS effective from the date of the failed Black Start Resource Availability Test.  The QSE representing the Black Start Resource may schedule a second Black Start Resource Availability Test, subject to ERCOT approval, to be completed within ten Business Days of the date of the failed Black Start Resource Availability Test unless a later date is agreed to by ERCOT.  The cost of the second Black Start Resource test will be borne solely by the QSE representing the Black Start Resource. 
(10)	If the Black Start Resource successfully passes the second Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall resume receipt of the Hourly Standby Fee beginning on the date of the successful Black Start Resource Availability Test.
(11)	If the Black Start Resource fails a second Black Start Resource Availability Test within the quarter, it shall immediately be disqualified from providing BSS and shall receive no further compensation under the Black Start Service Agreement.  In addition, ERCOT shall claw-back all Hourly Standby Fee payments made to the QSE representing the Black Start Resource since its last successful Black Start Resource Availability Test or its last successful start and operation under normal system conditions, whichever is later.  The clawed-back Hourly Standby Fee payments shall be uplifted by ERCOT to Loads on a Load Ratio Share (LRS) basis.  ERCOT may, at its sole discretion, consider allowing the Black Start Resource to perform an additional Black Start Resource Availability Test.  ERCOT may also, at its sole discretion, seek to procure additional Black Start Resources to replace the disqualified Black Start Resource.
(12)	A QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall update its Availability Plan for a Black Start Resource to show zero if the Black Start Resource fails to perform when ERCOT has issued a Dispatch Instruction to come On-Line any time other than for a Blackout.  The Black Start Resource shall continue to be shown as unavailable until it successfully starts under normal operations or completes a successful Black Start Resource Availability Test.
(13)	If the Black Start Resource fails to perform successfully during an actual Blackout and the Black Start Resource has been declared available, as defined in Section 22, Attachment D, ERCOT shall:
(a)	Decertify the Black Start Resource for the remainder of the Black Start Agreement contract term; and
(b)	Claw-back 100% of the Hourly Standby Fee paid to the QSE representing the Black Start Resource for all the Operating Days since its last successful Black Start Resource Availability Test or its last successful start and operation under normal system conditions, whichever is later. 
8.1.1.2.1.6	Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource Qualification, Testing, Decertification, and Recertification
(1)	Generation Resources that meet the following requirements are eligible to provide Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS) and may be selected in the procurement process for FFSS.  Both the primary Generation Resource and any alternate Generation Resources, as specified in the FFSS Offer Submission Form, must meet the following requirements prior to submitting an FFSS Offer Submission Form:
(a)	Successfully demonstrates dual fuel capability, the ability to establish and burn an alternative onsite stored fuel, and has onsite fuel storage capability in an amount that satisfies the minimum FFSS capability requirements, as described in paragraph (2) below;
(b)	Has an onsite natural gas or fuel oil storage capability or off-site natural gas storage where the Resource Entity and/or QSE owns and controls the natural gas storage and pipeline to deliver the required amount of reserve natural gas to the Generation Resource from the storage facility in an amount that satisfies the minimum FFSS capability requirements, as defined in paragraph (2) below; or
(c)	Meets the following requirements:  
(i)	The Generation Entity for the Generation Resource (or an Affiliate of such Generation Entity) either owns a storage facility with, or has a Firm Gas Storage Agreement for, sufficient natural gas storage capacity for the offered Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the request for proposal (RFP); 
(ii)	The Generation Entity for the Generation Resource (or an Affiliate of such Generation Entity) must own and have good title to sufficient natural gas in the storage facility for the offered Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for at least the duration requirement specified in the RFP, and must commit to maintain such quantity of natural gas in storage at all times during the obligation period; and
(iii)	The Generation Entity for the Generation Resource (or an Affiliate of such Generation Entity) must have entered into a Firm Transportation Agreement on an FFSS Qualifying Pipeline, or multiple Firm Transportation Agreements on multiple Qualifying Pipelines, and: 
(A)	Each Firm Transportation Agreement must have a maximum daily contract quantity sufficient to transport the quantity of natural gas described above from the storage facility to the Generation Resource in a quantity that is sufficient to allow generation of the offered FFSS MW for at least the duration requirement specified in the RFP;
(B)	At least one of the Firm Transportation Agreements must contain a primary receipt point that is the point of withdrawal for the storage facility used to comply with paragraph (i) above; 
(C)	At least one of the Firm Transportation Agreements must contain a primary delivery point that permits delivery of the natural gas directly to the Generation Resource (including through a plant line or other dedicated lateral);
(D)	Each Firm Transportation Agreement must have a term that includes each hour of November 15 through March 15, i.e., during the FFSS obligation period; and
(E)	If multiple Firm Transportation Agreements will be used, the point of delivery for each Firm Transportation Agreement, other than the Firm Transportation Agreement that satisfies the requirements set forth in paragraph (C) above, must be a primary receipt point under another Firm Transportation Agreement such that there is a complete path for firm transportation service from the storage facility to the Generation Facility.
(iv)	If the Generation Entity will utilize a contractual right to firm gas storage capacity on a third-party system under a Firm Gas Storage Agreement to comply with paragraph (i) above rather than a self-owned physical gas storage facility to qualify, then the Firm Gas Storage Agreement must have: 
(A)	A term that includes each hour of November 15 through March 15, i.e., during the FFSS obligation period; 
(B)	A maximum storage quantity not less than the amount of natural gas needed to allow the Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the RFP;
(C)	A maximum daily withdrawal quantity that permits the Generation Entity (or an Affiliate) to withdraw from storage a daily quantity of natural gas sufficient to allow the Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the RFP; and
(D)	A point of withdrawal that is a primary receipt point under its Firm Transportation Agreement.
(v)	If the Generation Entity will utilize storage owned by it or an Affiliate to comply with paragraph (i) above, then the Generation Entity must certify that for the entire obligation period it or its Affiliate, as applicable, retains the rights to: 
(A)	Sufficient storage capacity in its facility to store not less than the amount of natural gas needed to allow the Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the RFP;  
(B)	Withdraw from its storage a daily quantity of natural gas sufficient to allow the Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the RFP; and
(C)	Withdraw from its storage facility at a point of withdrawal that is a primary receipt point under its Firm Transportation Agreement.
(vi)	The MW offered by the QSE for the Generation Resource may not be less than the Generation Resource’s LSL.
(vii)	The Generation Entity for the Generation Resource may satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (i) through (v) above through use of a single, bundled agreement providing for gas supply, storage, and transportation service, as long as the bundled agreement satisfies the requirements of the definitions of Firm Transportation Agreement and Firm Gas Storage Agreement, the requirements in paragraphs (ii), (iii)(A), (iii)(D), (iv)(A), (iv)(B), and (iv)(C) above, and has a primary delivery point that permits delivery of the gas directly to the Generation Resource (including through a plant line or other dedicated lateral).
(d)	A Generation Resource may participate as a Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource (FFSSR) under only one of paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) above.
(e)	Successfully demonstrates the ability to provide FFSS in order to maintain Resource availability in the event of a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption consistent with qualifying technologies identified by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).
(2)	The minimum FFSS capability requirement is the volume of fuel necessary to operate the Generation Resource at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP.  This MW value must be greater than or equal to the Generation Resource’s LSL and is a limit on the MW quantity of FFSS that can be offered for the Generation Resource in the FFSS Offer Submission Form.  
(3)	A Generation Resource will not be considered qualified to provide FFSS if, in a prior obligation period, the Generation Resource was decertified per paragraph (18) below.  However, such Generation Resource may nevertheless be considered qualified to provide FFSS if the Generation Resource: 
(a)	Has subsequently been recertified, as provided in paragraph (22) below; or 
(b)	The QSE representing the Generation Resource submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT and has agreement with ERCOT on that plan.
(4)	A Generation Entity may, but is not required to, submit in writing a proposed form of Firm Gas Storage Agreement or Firm Transportation Agreement (whether to be entered into by the Generation Entity or an Affiliate thereof) to ERCOT for review to be certified as an FFSS Qualified Contract in accordance with such policies and procedures as ERCOT may develop or require from time to time consistent with the requirements of the ERCOT Protocols.
(a)	ERCOT may, but is not obligated to, undertake a review of such agreement and, if acceptable, certify in writing such agreement as an FFSS Qualified Contract.  The decision whether to certify such agreement as an FFSS Qualified Contract shall be in ERCOT’s sole discretion.
(b)	To the extent that any such agreement is so certified by ERCOT, it shall constitute an FFSS Qualified Contract, and a Generation Entity may rely upon such certification for purposes of qualifying as an FFSSR under paragraph (1)(c) above.  Any material change to the ERCOT certified form of an existing FFSS Qualified Contract that affects the requirements of a firm natural gas FFSSR shall require a re-certification by ERCOT.  For the avoidance of doubt, a Firm Gas Storage Agreement or Firm Transportation Agreement meeting the requirements of the natural gas FFSSR is not required to be certified as an FFSS Qualified Contract.
(5)	A QSE representing a Generation Resource that will be offered to provide FFSS as a primary Generation Resource or an alternate Generation Resource must annually demonstrate each offered Generation Resource’s capability to use reserved fuel sources identified in paragraphs (1)(a) through (1)(c) above and sustain its output for 60 minutes at the MW value equal to the QSE’s desired level of FFSS qualification for the Resource.  The maximum MW of FFSS that can be offered for the designated Resource by the QSE must be limited to the average Real-Time net real power (in MW) telemetered for the Resource during the demonstration period.  Each QSE representing an FFSSR or prospective FFSSR must annually complete the test or successfully deploy at the maximum awarded MW amount for at least the demonstration period and inform ERCOT by August 15 of each year.  In order to complete this annual process, the QSE representing the Generation Resource(s) shall:
(a)	If qualifying by a self-test, coordinate the test with the ERCOT control room and show the Resource as having a Resource Status of “ONTEST” in its COP and through its Real-Time telemetry for the duration of the demonstration; and
(b)	Submit a Resource FFSS qualification form with the date and time of the self-test or the successful deployment that the QSE would like considered for qualification.
(6)	A QSE representing an FFSSR must ensure the full awarded FFSS capability is available by November 15 of each year awarded in the RFP.
(7)	A QSE representing an FFSSR shall update the Availability Plan for a Generation Resource to show it is unavailable to provide FFSS if it is not available to come On-Line or generate using reserved fuel.  The QSE representing an FFSSR must submit an Availability Plan for any alternate Generation Resource that were designated in the FFSS Offer Submission Form.  The QSE shall continue to show the Generation Resource is unavailable to provide FFSS in the Availability Plan until it can successfully come On-Line or generate using the reserved fuel.
(8)	An FFSSR that is not available to come On-Line shall inform the ERCOT control room as soon as practicable and update the FFSSR Availability Plan within 60 minutes of identifying the unavailability.
(9)	If the FFSSR is not available for the hours for which ERCOT has issued a Watch for winter weather, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 90 days, unless the FFSSR exhausted the fuel reserved to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP, including any fuel that was restocked following final approval or instruction from ERCOT, or the FFSSR exhausted emission hours allocated for the FFSSR, as specified in the FFSS Offer Submission Form.  Evidence of an FFSSR not being available includes, but is not limited to, an Availability Plan submission of unavailable or other communications to the ERCOT control room indicating the FFSSR is not available during the Watch.
(10)	If the FFSSR fails to come On-Line or stay On-Line during an FFSS deployment due to a fuel-related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 90 days.  A QSE representing an FFSSR may coordinate with ERCOT and seek approval to take the FFSSR Off-Line for no more than four hours to perform critical maintenance associated with consuming the reserved fuel.  If the QSE coordinates with ERCOT and receives approval to take the FFSSR unit Off-Line and brings the FFSSR back On-Line within four hours or less, this shall not count as failure to stay On-Line for the purpose of this paragraph.
(11)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment, but fails to telemeter on average an HSL equal to or greater than 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a fuel-related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 90 days, in proportion to the difference between the awarded MW value and the average telemetered HSL over the FFSS deployment period.
(12)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment but fails to generate on average at the minimum of either 95% of the MW level instructed by ERCOT or 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a fuel-related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 90 days, in proportion to the difference between the average MW level instructed by ERCOT over the FFSS deployment period and the corresponding average generation of the FFSSR.
(13)	If the FFSSR fails to come On-Line or stay On-Line during an FFSS deployment due to a non-fuel related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 15 days. 
(14)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment but fails to telemeter on average an HSL equal to or greater than 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a non-fuel related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 15 days, in proportion to the difference between the awarded MW value and the average telemetered HSL over the FFSS deployment period.
(15)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment but fails to generate on average at the minimum of either 95% of the MW level instructed by ERCOT or 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a non-fuel related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 15 days, in proportion to the difference between the average MW level instructed by ERCOT over the FFSS deployment period and the corresponding average generation of the FFSSR.
(16)	Notwithstanding paragraphs (9) through (15) above, if the FFSSR is otherwise available but fails to come On-Line or is forced Off-Line due to a transmission system outage or transmission system limitation that would prevent the unit from being deployed to LSL, ERCOT shall not claw back the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee.  
(17)	If conditions described in paragraphs (11) and (12) occur for the same deployment period, ERCOT shall only claw back the larger amount calculated in paragraph (11) or (12).  If conditions described in paragraphs (14) and (15) occur for the same deployment period, ERCOT shall only claw back the larger amount calculated in paragraph (14) or (15).
(18)	ERCOT shall decertify a primary Generation Resource or any alternate Generation Resource that was an FFSSR for any of the following:
(a)	Failure to come On-Line or stay On-Line during an FFSS deployment due to a fuel-related issue for two or more deployments;
(b)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment, failure to generate on average at the minimum of either 95% of the MW level instructed by ERCOT or 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a fuel-related issue for two or more deployments; or
(c)	Failure to maintain an Hourly Rolling Equivalent Availability Factor greater than or equal to 50%.
(19)	If ERCOT decertifies a primary Generation Resource, the QSE shall designate an alternate Generation Resource that was awarded through the FFSS procurement process to replace the decertified Generation Resource and continue to provide FFSS.  The designated alternate Generation Resource shall satisfy all of the requirements in paragraph (9) of Section 3.14.5, Firm Fuel Supply Service.  The designated alternate Generation Resource may no longer be an alternate for another primary Generation Resource.
(20)	If ERCOT decertifies an FFSSR that does not have any alternate Generation Resources that were awarded through the FFSS procurement process, ERCOT will cease payments to the QSE under Section 6.6.14.2, Firm Fuel Supply Service Hourly Standby Fee Payment and Fuel Replacement Cost Recovery, until the FFSSR is recertified by ERCOT.  ERCOT may issue one or more RFPs to replace the decertified FFSSR’s capacity for the remainder of the FFSS obligation period.  
(21)	If ERCOT has not replaced a decertified Generation Resource’s FFSSR capacity, the QSE of a decertified Generation Resource may request to reestablish its FFSSR certification by submitting a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and by successfully passing a new test, as described in paragraph (5) above.  ERCOT shall, in its sole discretion, determine whether a Generation Resource shall be recertified.
(22)	A decertified Generation Resource that has not been recertified by ERCOT must submit a corrective action plan to ERCOT and have agreement with ERCOT on that plan in order to be considered qualified to provide FFSS and be selected in the procurement process for any future FFSS obligation period.
(23)	If an FFSSR is unavailable or fails to continuously deploy due to a Force Majeure Event, the Generation Entity for such Generation Resource must provide a report to ERCOT containing certain additional information, including:
(a)	If the basis of the non-performance is a Force Majeure Event affecting the FFSSR, a description of the Force Majeure Event giving rise to the non-performance, with reasonably full details of such Force Majeure Event;
(b)	If the basis of the non-performance is the unavailability of the FFSSR’s FFSS Qualifying Pipeline or natural gas storage facility:
(i)	A copy of the relevant Firm Transportation Agreement and/or Firm Gas Storage Agreement; 
(ii)	A copy of the nominations submitted or a detailed accounting of no notices volumes delivered for the gas day prior to the Force Majeure Event until the gas day after the Force Majeure Event; 
(iii)	The applicable storage inventory level for the gas day prior to the Force Majeure Event until the gas day after the Force Majeure Event; 
(iv)	A copy of the force majeure notice from the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline operator or storage provider; and
(v)	The capacity and flow data from the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline or storage facility for the gas day prior to the Force Majeure Event until the gas day after the Force Majeure Event;
(c)	To the best of its knowledge, how, why, and to what extent the Force Majeure Event actually and directly affected the FFSSR’s ability to perform;
(d)	The FFSSR’s heat rate;
(e)	The applicable nominations, and if applicable, no-notice delivered, on the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline from the gas day prior to the Force Majeure Event until the day after the Force Majeure Event; and
(f)	ERCOT will have the right to request that the Generation Entity provide, or cause to be provided, any additional information ERCOT deems necessary, and the Generation Entity must provide such requested information to the extent reasonably within its possession or control.  If the information is not in the possession of the Generation Entity (or its Affiliate) but may be in the possession of the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline operator or storage provider, the Generation Entity will exercise any contractual rights it has to request such information from the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline operator or storage provider, as applicable.
(24)	Unless the agreement is a certified contract, if the relevant Firm Transportation Agreement and/or Firm Gas Storage Agreement does not ensure firmness in the manner required by the ERCOT Protocols, ERCOT shall revoke the award and claw back and/or withhold all of the FFSS Hourly Standby Fees for all of the days of the obligation period.
(25)	For an FFSSR, a Force Majeure Event will be treated the same as any other cause for unavailability for the purposes of calculating the FFSSR’s FFSS Hourly Rolling Equivalent Availability Factor and for paragraphs (9) through (15) above.
(26)	It will constitute a material change under the ERCOT Protocols if a primary Generation Resource or any alternate Generation Resource that qualified to provide FFSS under paragraph (1)(c) above ceases to satisfy any of the requirements to qualify as an FFSSR under paragraph (1)(c) above (for example, but not limited to, if the Firm Transportation Agreement is terminated or if the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline no longer qualifies as an FFSS Qualifying Pipeline). 
(a)	The QSE of such Generation Resource will be required to notify ERCOT within two Business Days of such a material change.
(b)	ERCOT may decertify a primary Generation Resource or alternate Generation Resource if such material change is, in ERCOT’s sole opinion, an adverse change (for example, but not limited to, if a Firm Transportation Agreement is terminated and not replaced with a comparable, qualifying Firm Transportation Agreement).
8.1.1.2.1.7	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Qualification
(1)	ECRS may be provided by:  
(a)	Unloaded Generation Resources that are On-Line; 
(b)	Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs); 
(c)	Load Resources that may or may not be controlled by high-set under-frequency relays; 
(d)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode; or 
(e)	Controllable Load Resources (CLRs). 
(2)	The amount of ECRS provided by individual Generation Resources and Load Resources is limited to ten times its telemetered emergency ramp rate.  Each Resource providing ECRS must be capable of ramping the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resources Responsibility for ECRS within ten minutes of the notice to deploy ECRS,  and must be able to maintain the scheduled level of deployment for the period of service commitment.  The amount of ECRS on a Generation Resource may be further limited by requirements of the Operating Guides.
(3)	A Load Resource must be loaded and capable of unloading the scheduled amount of ECRS within ten minutes of instruction by ERCOT and must either be immediately responsive to system frequency or be interrupted by action of under-frequency relays with settings as specified by the Operating Guides.
(4)	Any QSE providing ECRS shall provide communications equipment to receive ERCOT telemetered control deployments of ECRS.
(5)	Load Resources providing ECRS must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status and status of the under-frequency relay, if applicable. 
(6)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility.  Each Generation Resource and Load Resource providing ECRS must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(7)	A qualification test for each Resource to provide ECRS is conducted during a continuous eight-hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	At any time during the window (selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE), ERCOT shall notify the QSE it is to provide an amount of ECRS from its Resource to be qualified equal to the amount that the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For Generation Resources desiring qualification to provide ECRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy ECRS, indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall monitor the QSEs telemetry of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Schedule for an update within 15 seconds.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.4, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide ECRS.
(c)	For CLRs desiring qualification to provide ECRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy ECRS, indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.4.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the CLR given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the CLR’s qualification to provide ECRS.  
(d)	For Load Resources, excluding CLRs, desiring qualification to provide ECRS, ERCOT shall deploy ECRS, indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.4.
(e)	On successful demonstration of all test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing ECRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource Entity.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1246:  Replace Section 8.1.1.2.1.7 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
8.1.1.2.1.7	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Qualification
(1)	ECRS may be provided by:  
(a) 	Unloaded Generation Resources that are On-Line; 
(b)	Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs); 
(c) 	Load Resources that may or may not be controlled by high-set under-frequency relays; 
(d) 	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode; 
(e) 	Controllable Load Resources (CLRs); or
(f)	ESRs. 
(2)	All Resources qualified to participate in SCED or qualified to telemeter a Resource Status of ONSC are also qualified to provide ECRS when the Resource is On-Line.  The amount of ECRS for which the Resource is qualified when On-Line will be limited to the amount of capacity that can be ramped or unloaded within ten minutes.  Off-Line ECRS can only be provided by qualified QSGRs. 
(3)       The amount of ECRS provided by individual Generation Resources and Load Resources is limited to ten times its telemetered emergency ramp rate.  Each Resource providing ECRS must be capable of ramping the Resource’s Ancillary Service award for ECRS within ten minutes of the notice to deploy ECRS, and must be able to maintain the awarded level of deployment for at least one hour.  The amount of ECRS on a Generation Resource may be further limited by requirements of the Operating Guides.
(4)	A Load Resource must be loaded and capable of unloading the awarded amount of ECRS within ten minutes of instruction by ERCOT and must either be immediately responsive to system frequency or be interrupted by action of under-frequency relays with settings as specified by the Operating Guides.
(5)	Any QSE providing ECRS shall provide communications equipment to receive ERCOT telemetered control deployments of ECRS.
(6)	Load Resources providing ECRS must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status and status of the under-frequency relay, if applicable. 
(7)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service award.  Each Generation Resource and Load Resource providing ECRS when Off-Line as a QSGR with an OFFQS Resource Status, or when not qualified to participate in SCED, must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(8)	A qualification test for each Resource to provide ECRS when Off-Line as a QSGR with an OFFQS Resource Status or as a Load Resource, excluding CLRs, is conducted during a continuous eight-hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	At any time during the window (selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE), ERCOT shall notify the QSE it is to provide an amount of ECRS from its Resource to be qualified equal to the amount that the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	Generation Resources desiring qualification to provide ECRS when Off-Line must meet the QSGR qualification criteria outlined under Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.2 for QSGR.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide ECRS.
(c)	For Load Resources, excluding CLRs, desiring qualification to provide ECRS, ERCOT shall deploy ECRS, indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.4.
(d)	On successful demonstration of all test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing ECRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource Entity.
8.1.1.3	Ancillary Service Capacity Compliance Criteria 
(1)	ERCOT shall provide each QSE representing Resources a capacity summary containing as a minimum the same general information required in Section 6.5.7.5, Ancillary Services Capacity Monitor, except specific to only the QSE.  The summary shall be updated with calculations every ten seconds by ERCOT and then provided to the QSE every five minutes using the MIS Certified Area.  
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously measure the overall performance of each QSE in providing each Ancillary Service by comparing the sum of each of the QSE’s Resources’ telemetered Ancillary Services Resource Responsibility with the QSE’s total Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility.  If the comparison indicates the QSE is not providing sufficient capacity to meet its Ancillary Services Supply Responsibility, ERCOT shall notify the QSE via the MIS Certified Area.
(3)	The QSE, within 25 minutes of receiving the insufficient capacity notification from ERCOT, the QSE must:
(a)	If due to a telemetry issue, correct the telemetered Ancillary Services Resource Responsibility to provide sufficient capacity; or
(b)	Must provide both appropriate justification for not satisfying their Ancillary Service Obligation and a plan to correct the shortfall that is acceptable with the ERCOT operator.  ERCOT shall report non-compliance with Ancillary Service capacity requirements to the Reliability Monitor for review.
[NPRR1011:  Delete paragraphs (2) and (3) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(4) 	A QSE for an ESR that is, was, or will be unable to meet its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility due to a charging restriction during an EEA Level 3 event shall inform ERCOT of this inability no later than one hour after the end of the EEA Level 3 event.  Upon providing such notification, the QSE shall be deemed to have complied with its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility for a time period following the EEA Level 3 event that is equal to the duration of the suspended charging period during the EEA Level 3 event.  However, nothing in this paragraph exempts the QSE from any charge under Section 6.7.3, Charges for Ancillary Service Capacity Replaced Due to Failure to Provide, or any other Settlement consequence due to the Ancillary Service insufficiency.
[NPRR1053:  Delete paragraph (4) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-optimization (RTC) Project and renumber accordingly.]
(5)	ERCOT shall report non-compliance with Ancillary Service capacity requirements to the Reliability Monitor for review.  Non-compliance occurs only if a QSE is deficient in its Ancillary Service capacity requirement for more than S% of the five-minute clock intervals that the QSE is carrying an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, as calculated for the calendar month in accordance with paragraphs (6) and (7) of this section, or if the QSE is deficient in its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, by service type, by more than greater of T% of its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility  or U MW for more than 25 minutes (i.e. five consecutive five-minute clock intervals) in five or more instances within the month.  For purposes of this section, a single instance is considered a deficiency of the greater of T% or U MW for more than 25 consecutive minutes, regardless of how long the deficiency persists.  
(6)	ERCOT shall calculate the Ancillary Service capacity performance metrics under normal operating conditions.  ERCOT shall not consider five-minute clock intervals during which any of the following events has occurred:
(a)	For a Resource providing Ancillary Service that experiences a Forced Outage, all five-minute clock intervals from the time of the Forced Outage until the next Operating Hour for which the QSE can update its schedule (i.e., within ten minutes before the close of an Adjustment Period).  This exemption shall only apply to the first three Outages experienced by any single Resource in the evaluation period.  ERCOT shall validate the cause of the Forced Outage through telemetry, however should it not be readily discernable, upon request of ERCOT, the QSE shall provide the following documentation regarding each Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure: 
(i)	Its generation log documenting the Forced Outage, Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure;
(ii)	QSE (COP) for the intervals prior to, and after the event; and
(iii)	Equipment failure documentation which may include, but not be limited to, Generation Availability Data System (GADS) reports, plant operator logs, work orders, or other applicable information; 
(b)	For intervals where both the primary and backup Wide Area Network (WAN) connections are inoperative;
(c)	For intervals where an Ancillary Service Obligation was traded during the Operating Hour between two QSEs such that one QSE assumed the Ancillary Service Obligation of the other QSE, and the ERCOT Operator was notified of the Ancillary Service Trade as soon as practicable; and
(d)	For certain other periods of abnormal operations as determined by ERCOT in its sole discretion.
(7)	For each QSE with Resources providing Ancillary Service, ERCOT shall calculate Ancillary Service capacity performance metrics for each month. 
(a)	Ancillary Service capacity performance is based on the following criteria:
(i)	In each five-minute clock interval during which the QSE has an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, a QSE may be deficient in its Ancillary Service responsibility, by service type, by no more than the greater of:
(A)	T% of its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility; or
(B)	U MW.
(ii)	If at the end of the month for which the Ancillary Service capacity performance metric was calculated, the QSE failed to meet its applicable responsibilities as defined in item (i) above during more than S% of the five-minute clock intervals that the QSE was carrying an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, ERCOT will report such non-compliance to the Reliability Monitor.
(b)	Ancillary Service capacity performance is measured for each service type in five-minute clock intervals based on the difference between Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility and the telemetered responsibility.  ERCOT shall measure Ancillary Service capacity performance one time per five-minute clock interval.  ERCOT shall not measure Ancillary Service capacity performance during the final 20 seconds of any given five-minute clock interval.
(8)	The Ancillary Service capacity performance criteria in paragraphs (5) through (7) above shall be subject to review and approval by the ERCOT Board.  The Ancillary Service capacity performance criteria variables S, T, and U shall be posted to the ERCOT website no later than three Business Days after ERCOT Board approval.
8.1.1.3.1	Regulation Service Capacity Monitoring Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide Reg-Up and Reg-Down.  When determining this available capacity, ERCOT shall consider for each Resource with REG status, the actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service Schedule for Reg-Up and Reg-Down, the HSL, the LSL, ramp rates, any other commitments of Ancillary Service capacity.
[NPRR1011:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide Reg-Up and Reg-Down.  When determining this available capacity, ERCOT shall consider for each Resource the Resource Status, the actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service award for Reg-Up and Reg-Down, the HSL, the LSL, ramp rates, and the Resource’s qualification to provide Reg-Up and Reg-Down.
(2)	For the Reg-Up and Reg-Down capability provided for a Resource to ERCOT by the Resource’s QSE, the amount of Reg-Up or Reg-Down reflected in that capability must be limited to the amount of Reg-Up or Reg-Down that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.
8.1.1.3.2	Responsive Reserve Capacity Monitoring Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide RRS.  ERCOT shall consider for each Resource providing RRS capacity, actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service Schedule for RRS, the HSL, the LSL, and any other commitments of Ancillary Service capacity. 
(2)	For Load Resources not deployed by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the amount of RRS capacity provided must be measured as the Load Resource’s average Load level in the last five minutes.
(3)	A Resource that is capable of providing RRS and that has a Resource Status code of ONRR is considered to be providing frequency responsive capability to the extent that it is not using that capacity to provi