ERCOT Planning Guide

Table of Contents

June 1, 2023







	

 
1	Overview	1-1
1.1	Purpose	1
1.2	Process for Planning Guide Revision	1
1.2.1	Introduction	1
1.2.2	Submission of a Planning Guide Revision Request	2
1.2.3	Planning Guide Revision Procedure	3
1.2.3.1	Review and Posting of Planning Guide Revision Requests	3
1.2.3.2	Withdrawal of aPlanning Guide Revision Request	4
1.2.3.3	ROS Review and Action	4
1.2.3.4	Comments to the ROS Report	5
1.2.3.5	Planning Guide Revision Request Impact Analysis	5
1.2.3.6	ROS Review of Impact Analysis	6
1.2.3.7	Wholesale Market Subcommittee Review	6
1.2.3.8	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report	7
1.2.3.9	PRS Review of Project Prioritization	7
1.2.3.10	Technical Advisory Committee Vote	7
1.2.3.11	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report	8
1.2.3.12	ERCOT Board Vote	8
1.2.3.13	PUCT Approval of Revision Requests	9
1.2.3.14	Appeal of Action	9
1.2.5	Urgent Requests	10
1.2.6	Planning Guide Revision Implementation	11
2	Definitions and Acronyms	2-1
2.1	Definitions	1
2.2 	Acronyms	4
3	Regional Planning	3-1
3.1	Communications	1
3.1.1	Overview of Major Transmission Planning Activities	1
3.1.1.1	Long-Term System Assessment	1
3.1.1.2	Regional Transmission Plan	1
3.1.1.3	Regional Planning Group Project Reviews	2
3.1.1.4	Generation Interconnection Process	2
3.1.1.5	Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Vulnerability Assessment	3
3.1.2	Regional Planning Group Project Submission	3
3.1.2.1	All Projects	3
3.1.3	Project Evaluation	4
3.1.3.1	Definitions of Reliability-Driven and Economic-Driven Projects	5
3.1.3.2	Reliability-Driven Project Evaluation	6
3.1.4	Regional Transmission Plan Development Process	6
3.1.4.1	Development of Regional Transmission Plan	6
3.1.4.1.1	Regional Transmission Plan Cases	7
3.1.4.2	Use of Regional Transmission Plan	7
3.1.5	Regional Planning Group Comment Process	8
3.1.6	Notify PUCT of Recommended Transmission Projects	9
3.1.7	Steady State Transmission Planning Load Forecast	9
3.1.8	Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities	10
3.1.9	Transmission Interconnection Study	12
4	Transmission Planning Criteria	4-1
4.1	Introduction	1
4.1.1	Reliability Criteria	2
4.1.1.1	Planning Assumptions	2
4.1.1.2	Reliability Performance Criteria	2
4.1.1.3	Voltage Stability Margin	5
4.1.1.4	Steady State Voltage Response Criteria	5
4.1.1.5	Transient Voltage Response Criteria	6
4.1.1.6	Damping Criteria	6
4.1.1.7	Minimum Deliverability Criteria	6
4.1.1.8	Maintenance Outage Reliability Criteria	6

5	Generator Interconnection or Modification	5-1
5.1	Introduction	1
5.2	General Provisions	1
5.2.1	Applicability	1
5.2.2	Initiation of Generator Interconnection or Modification	3
5.2.3	Confidentiality	5
5.2.4	Duty to Update Project Information and Respond to ERCOT and TDSP Requests for Information	5
5.2.5	Inactive Status	7
5.2.6	Project Cancellation Due to Failure to Comply with Requirements	8
5.2.7	Voluntary Project Cancellation	9
5.2.8	Interconnection Agreements and Procedures	9
5.2.8.1	Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement for Transmission-Connected Generators	9
5.2.8.2	Interconnection Agreement for Distribution-Connected Generators	10
5.2.8.3	Provisions for Municipally Owned Utilities and Cooperatives	10
5.3	Interconnection and Study Procedures for Large Generators	11
5.3.1	Security Screening Study	11
5.3.2	Full Interconnection Study	13
5.3.2.1	Proof of Site Control	14
5.3.2.2	Full Interconnection Study Scoping Process	15
5.3.2.3	Full Interconnection Study Description and Methodology	17
5.3.2.4	Full Interconnection Study Elements	17
5.3.2.4.1	Steady-State Analysis	17
5.3.2.4.2	System Protection (Short-Circuit) Analysis	18
5.3.2.4.3	Dynamic and Transient Stability (Unit Stability, Voltage) Analysis	18
5.3.2.4.4	Facility Study	20
5.3.2.5	FIS Report and Follow-up	20
5.3.3	ERCOT Economic Study	22
5.3.4	Reactive Study	22
5.3.5	ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment	23
5.4	Interconnection Procedures for Small Generators	25
5.4.1	Small Generator Review Meetings	25
5.4.2	Submission of Interconnection Agreement and TSP and/or DSP Studies and Technical Requirements	25
5.4.3	Reviews and Approval to Submit Model Information	25
5.4.4	Transmission System Reliability Impact	26
5.5	Generator Commissioning and Continuing Operations	26
6	Data/Modeling	6-1
6.1	Steady-State Model Development	1
6.2	Dynamics Model Development	3
6.2.1	Dynamics Data Requirements for Generation Resources and Settlement Only Generators	6
6.2.2	Dynamics Data Requirements for Load Resources	7
6.2.3	Dynamics Data Requirements for and Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers	7
6.2.4 	Dynamics Data Screening and Maintenance	8
6.3	Process for Developing Short Circuit Cases	8
6.4	Transmission Project Information and Tracking Report and Data Requirements	9
6.4.1	Transmission Project Information and Tracking Report	9
6.4.2	ERCOT Responsibilities	10
6.4.3	TSP Responsibilities	10
6.4.4 	Regional Transmission Plan Projects in Transmission Project Information and Tracking Report	10
6.4.5	Content of the Transmission Project Information and Tracking Report	10
6.5	Annual Load Data Request	11
6.6	Intentionally Left Blank	12
6.7	Data Dictionary	12
6.8	Resource Registration Procedures	13
6.8.1	Resource Registration	13
6.8.2	Resource Registration Process	13
6.9	Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models	14
6.10	Contingency Filing Requirements	16
6.11	Process for Developing Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) System Models	17
6.12	Addition of a Proposed DC Tie to the Planning Models	18
7	Market Data Transparency	7-1
7.1	Planning Data and Information	1
8	Attachments	8-1
Declaration of Resource Data Accuracy	8(A)
Declaration of Adequate Water Supplies	8(B)
Declaration of Department of Defense Notification	8(C)
Attestation Regarding Compliance with the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act	8(D)
9	RESERVED	9-1





ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 1:  Overview

June 1, 2023







	
	 
1	OVERVIEW	1
1.1	PURPOSE	1
1.2	PROCESS FOR PLANNING GUIDE REVISION	1
1.2.1	Introduction	1
1.2.2	Submission of a Planning Guide Revision Request	2
1.2.3	Planning Guide Revision Procedure	3
1.2.3.1	Review and Posting of Planning Guide Revision Requests	3
1.2.3.2	Withdrawal of a Planning Guide Revision Request	4
1.2.3.3	ROS Review and Action	4
1.2.3.4	Comments to the ROS Report	5
1.2.3.5	Planning Guide Revision Request Impact Analysis	5
1.2.3.6	ROS Review of Impact Analysis	6
1.2.3.7	Wholesale Market Subcommittee Review	6
1.2.3.8	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report	7
1.2.3.9	PRS Review of Project Prioritization	7
1.2.3.10	Technical Advisory Committee Vote	7
1.2.3.11	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report	8
1.2.3.12	ERCOT Board Vote	8
1.2.3.13	PUCT Approval of Revision Requests	9
1.2.3.14	Appeal of Action	9
1.2.4	Urgent Requests	10
1.2.5	Planning Guide Revision Implementation	11

 
1	OVERVIEW
1.1	Purpose
(1)	This Planning Guide is consistent with applicable planning-related requirements of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules, Protocols and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards. 
(2)	This Planning Guide provides more detail of and establishes planning requirements for organizations and Entities operating in or potentially impacting the reliability of the ERCOT System.  These organizations and Entities shall comply with the requirements set forth in this Planning Guide. 
(3)	In the event of a conflict between the Planning Guide and Protocols, any PUCT Substantive Rules or the NERC Reliability Standards, then such PUCT Substantive Rules, NERC Reliability Standards, and the Protocols shall control. 
(4)	For application in the ERCOT Region, some NERC Reliability Standards must be adapted to fit the unique characteristics of ERCOT.  Defined terminology for NERC Regional Variances, if any, is detailed in the NERC Reliability Standards.	
1.2	Process for Planning Guide Revision
1.2.1	Introduction
(1)	A request to make additions, edits, deletions, revisions, or clarifications to this Planning Guide, including any attachments and exhibits to this Planning Guide, is called a Planning Guide Revision Request (PGRR).  Except as specifically provided in other sections of this Planning Guide, this Section 1.2, Process for Planning Guide Revision, shall be followed for all PGRRs.  ERCOT Members, Market Participants, Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the Independent Market Monitor (IMM), the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Regional Entity, ERCOT, and any other Entities are required to utilize the process described herein prior to requesting, through the PUCT or other Governmental Authority, that ERCOT make a change to this Planning Guide, except for good cause shown to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority.
(2)	The “next regularly scheduled meeting” of the Reliability and Operations Subcommittee (ROS), the Wholesale Market Subcommittee (WMS), the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), the ERCOT Board or the PUCT, shall mean the next regularly scheduled meeting for which required Notice can be timely given regarding the item(s) to be addressed, as specified in the appropriate PUCT, ERCOT Board or committee procedures.
(3)	The ROS shall ensure that the Planning Guides are compliant with the ERCOT Protocols.  As such, the ROS will monitor all changes to the ERCOT Protocols and initiate any PGRRs necessary to bring the Planning Guides in conformance with the ERCOT Protocols.  The ROS will also initiate a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) if such a change is necessary to accommodate a proposed PGRR prior to proceeding with that PGRR.
(4)	Throughout the Planning Guide, references are made to the ERCOT Protocols.  ERCOT Protocols supersede the Planning Guide and any PGRR must be compliant with the Protocols.  The ERCOT Protocols are subject to the revision process outlined in Protocol Section 21, Revision Request Process.
(5)	ERCOT may make non-substantive corrections at any time during the processing of a particular PGRR.  Under certain circumstances, however, the Planning Guide can also be revised by ERCOT rather than using the PGRR process outlined in Section 1.2.
(a)	This type of revision is referred to as an “Administrative PGRR” or “Administrative Changes” and shall consist of non-substantive corrections, such as typos (excluding grammatical changes), internal references (including table of contents), improper use of acronyms, references to ERCOT Protocols, PUCT Substantive Rules, the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA), NERC regulations, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) rules, etc., and revisions for the purpose of maintaining consistency between Section 1.2 and Protocol Section 21. 
(b)	ERCOT shall post such Administrative PGRRs to the ERCOT website and distribute the PGRR to ROS.  If no Entity submits comments to the Administrative PGRR within ten Business Days in accordance with paragraph (1) of Section 1.2.3.3, ROS Review and Action, the Administrative PGRR shall be subject to PUCT approval.  Following PUCT approval, ERCOT shall implement the Administrative PGRR according to paragraph (3) of Section 1.2.5, Planning Guide Revision Implementation.  If any Entity submits comments to the Administrative PGRR, then it shall be processed in accordance with the PGRR process outlined in Section 1.2.
1.2.2	Submission of a Planning Guide Revision Request
(1)	The following Entities may submit a PGRR:
(a)	Any Market Participant;
(b)	Any ERCOT Member;
(c)	PUCT Staff;
(d)	Reliability Monitor Staff;
(e)	NERC Regional Entity Staff; 
(f) 	The IMM;
(g)	ERCOT; and 
(h)	Any other Entity that meets the following qualifications:
(i)	Resides (or represent residents) in Texas or operates in the Texas electricity market; and
(ii)	Demonstrates that Entity (or those it represents) is affected by the Customer Registration or Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Trading Program sections of the ERCOT Protocols.
1.2.3	Planning Guide Revision Procedure
1.2.3.1	Review and Posting of Planning Guide Revision Requests
(1)	PGRRs shall be submitted electronically to ERCOT by completing the designated form provided on the ERCOT website.  Excluding ERCOT-sponsored PGRRs, ERCOT shall provide an electronic return receipt response to the submitter upon receipt of the PGRR.
(2)	The PGRR shall include the following information:
(a)	Description of requested revision and reason for suggested change;
(b)	Impacts and benefits of the suggested change on ERCOT market structure, ERCOT operations, and Market Participants, to the extent that the submitter may know this information;
(c)	List of affected Planning Guide sections and subsections;
(d)	General administrative information (organization, contact name, etc.); and
(e)	Suggested language for requested revision.
(3)	ERCOT shall evaluate the PGRR for completeness and shall notify the submitter, within five Business Days of receipt, if the PGRR is incomplete, including the reasons for such status.  ERCOT may provide information to the submitter that will correct the PGRR and render it complete.  An incomplete PGRR shall not receive further consideration until it is completed.  In order to pursue the PGRR, a submitter must submit a completed version of the PGRR.
(4)	If a submitted PGRR is complete or upon completion of a PGRR, ERCOT shall post the PGRR on the ERCOT website and distribute to ROS within three Business Days.
(5)	For any ERCOT-sponsored PGRR, ERCOT shall also post an initial Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website, and distribute it to ROS.  The initial Impact Analysis will provide ROS with guidance as to potential ERCOT computer systems, operations, or business functions that could be affected by the submitted PGRR.
1.2.3.2	Withdrawal of a Planning Guide Revision Request
(1)	A submitter may withdraw or request to withdraw a PGRR by submitting a completed Request for Withdrawal form provided on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT shall post the submitter’s Request for Withdrawal on the ERCOT website within three Business Days of submittal.
(2)	The submitter of a PGRR may withdraw the PGRR at any time before ROS recommends approval of the PGRR.  
(3)	If ROS has recommended approval of the PGRR, the Request for Withdrawal must be approved by the TAC if the PGRR has not yet been recommended for approval by TAC.
(4)	If TAC has recommended approval of the PGRR, the Request for Withdrawal must be approved by the ERCOT Board if the PGRR has not yet been recommended for approval by the ERCOT Board.
(5)	Once recommended for approval by the ERCOT Board, a PGRR cannot be withdrawn.
1.2.3.3	ROS Review and Action
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, Reliability Monitor Staff, NERC Regional Entity Staff, the IMM Staff, or ERCOT may comment on the PGRR.
(2)	To receive consideration, comments must be delivered electronically to ERCOT in the designated format provided on the ERCOT website within 14 days from the posting date of the PGRR.  Comments submitted after the 14 day comment period may be considered at the discretion of ROS after these comments have been posted.  Comments submitted in accordance with the instructions on the ERCOT website, regardless of date of submission, shall be posted on the ERCOT website and distributed to the ROS within three Business Days of submittal.
(3)	The ROS shall consider the PGRR at its next regularly scheduled meeting after the end of the 14 day comment period.  The quorum and voting requirements for ROS action are set forth in the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures.  At such meeting, the ROS shall take action on the PGRR.  In considering action on a PGRR, the ROS shall:
(a)	Recommend approval of the PGRR as submitted or as modified;
(b)	Reject the PGRR;
(c)	Table the PGRR; or
(d)	Refer the PGRR to another ROS working group or task force, or another TAC subcommittee with instructions.
(4)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a PGRR and that motion fails, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by ROS unless at the same meeting ROS later votes to recommend approval of, table, or refer the PGRR.  If a motion to recommend approval of a PGRR fails via e-mail vote according to the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by the ROS unless at the next regularly scheduled ROS meeting or in a subsequent e-mail vote prior to such meeting, ROS votes to recommend approval of, table, or refer the PGRR.  The rejected PGRR shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 1.2.3.14, Appeal of Action.
(5)	Within three Business Days after ROS takes action, ERCOT shall post an ROS Report reflecting the ROS action on the ERCOT website.  The ROS Report shall contain the following items:
(a)	Identification of submitter of the PGRR
(b)	Planning Guide language recommended by the ROS, if applicable;
(c)	Identification of authorship of comments;
(d)	Proposed effective date(s) of the PGRR;
(e)	Recommended priority and rank for any PGRRs requiring an ERCOT project for implementation; and
(f)	ROS action.
(6)	The ROS chair shall notify TAC of Revision Requests rejected by ROS.
1.2.3.4	Comments to the ROS Report
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, Reliability Monitor Staff, NERC Regional Entity Staff, the IMM, or ERCOT may comment on the ROS Report.  Comments submitted in accordance with the instructions on the ERCOT website, regardless of date of submission, shall be posted on the ERCOT website and distributed to the committee (i.e. ROS and/or TAC) considering the PGRR within three Business Days of submittal.
(2)	The comments on the ROS Report will be considered at the next regularly scheduled ROS or TAC meeting where the PGRR is being considered.
1.2.3.5	Planning Guide Revision Request Impact Analysis
(1)	If ROS recommends approval of a PGRR, ERCOT shall prepare an Impact Analysis based on the proposed language in the ROS Report.  If ERCOT has already prepared an Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall update the existing Impact Analysis, if necessary, to accommodate the language recommended for approval in the ROS Report.
(2)	The Impact Analysis shall assess the impact of the proposed PGRR on ERCOT staffing, computer systems, operations, or business functions and shall contain the following information:
(a)	An estimate of any cost and budgetary impacts to ERCOT for both implementation and ongoing operations;
(b)	The estimated amount of time required to implement the PGRR;
(c)	The identification of alternatives to the PGRR that may result in more efficient implementation; and
(d)	The identification of any manual workarounds that may be used as an interim solution and estimated costs of the workaround.
(3)	Unless a longer review period is warranted due to the complexity of the proposed ROS Report, ERCOT shall post an Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website for a PGRR for which ROS has recommended approval of, prior to the next regularly scheduled ROS meeting, and distribute to ROS.  If a longer review period is required by ERCOT to complete an Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
1.2.3.6	ROS Review of Impact Analysis
(1)	After ERCOT posts the results of the Impact Analysis, ROS shall review the Impact Analysis at its next regularly scheduled meeting.  ROS may revise its ROS Report after considering the information included in the Impact Analysis or additional comments received on the ROS Report.
(2)	Within three Business Days of ROS consideration of the Impact Analysis and ROS Report, ERCOT shall post the ROS Report on the ERCOT website.  If ROS revises the ROS Report, ERCOT shall update the Impact Analysis, if necessary, post the updated Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website, and distribute it to the committee (i.e. ROS and/or TAC) considering the Impact Analysis.  If a longer review period is required for ERCOT to update the Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
(3)	If the PGRR requires an ERCOT project for implementation, at the same meeting, ROS shall assign a recommended priority and rank for the associated project.
1.2.3.7	Wholesale Market Subcommittee Review
    (1)	The WMS shall monitor and review PGRRs as they work through the ROS process and may submit comments to the process as appropriate.
1.2.3.8	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report
(1)	ERCOT shall review the ROS Report and, if necessary, update the Impact Analysis as soon as practicable.  ERCOT shall distribute the updated Impact Analysis, if applicable, to TAC and post it on the ERCOT website.  If a longer review period is required for ERCOT to update the Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
1.2.3.9	PRS Review of Project Prioritization
(1)	At the next regularly scheduled Protocol Revision Subcommittee (PRS) meeting after ROS recommends approval of a PGRR that requires an ERCOT project for implementation, the PRS shall assign a recommended priority and rank for the associated project.
1.2.3.10	Technical Advisory Committee Vote
(1)	TAC shall consider any PGRRs that ROS has submitted to TAC for consideration for which both an ROS Report and an Impact Analysis (as updated if modified by ROS under Section 1.2.3.8, ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report) and any new or unresolved comments submitted by WMS that have been posted on the ERCOT website.  The following information must be included for each PGRR considered by TAC:
(a)	The ROS Report and Impact Analysis; 
(b)	The ROS-recommended priority and rank, if an ERCOT project is required; and
(c)	Any comments timely received in response to the ROS Report.
(2)	The quorum and voting requirements for TAC action are set forth in the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures.  In considering action on an ROS Report, TAC shall:
(a)	Recommend approval of the PGRR as recommended in the ROS Report (with due consideration to comments provided by WMS) or as modified by TAC;
(b)	Reject the PGRR;
(c)	Table the PGRR;
(d)	Remand the PGRR to ROS with instructions; or
(e)	Refer the PGRR to another TAC subcommittee or a TAC working group or task force with instructions.
(3)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a PGRR and that motion fails, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by TAC unless at the same meeting TAC later votes to recommend approval of, table, remand, or refer the PGRR.  If a motion to recommend approval of a PGRR fails via email vote according to the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by TAC unless at the next regularly scheduled TAC meeting or in a subsequent email vote prior to such meeting, TAC votes to recommend approval of, table, remand, or refer the PGRR.  The rejected PGRR shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 1.2.3.13, Appeal of Action.
(4)	Within three Business Days after TAC takes action on a PGRR, ERCOT shall post a TAC Report reflecting the TAC action on the ERCOT website.  The TAC Report shall contain the following items:
(a)	Identification of the submitter of the PGRR;
(b)	Modified Planning Guide language proposed by TAC, if applicable;
(c)	Identification of the authorship of comments, if applicable;
(d)	Proposed effective date(s) of the PGRR;  
(e)	Priority and rank for any PGRR requiring an ERCOT project for implementation;
(f)	ROS action;
(g)	TAC action;
(h)	IMM Opinion;
(i)	ERCOT Opinion; and
(j)	ERCOT Market Impact Statement.
(5) 	If TAC recommends approval of a PGRR, ERCOT shall forward the TAC Report to the ERCOT Board for consideration pursuant to 1.2.3.12, ERCOT Board Vote.
1.2.3.11	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report
(1)	ERCOT shall review the TAC Report and, if necessary, update the Impact Analysis as soon as practicable.  ERCOT shall distribute the updated Impact Analysis, if applicable, TAC and post it on the ERCOT website.  If a longer review period is required for ERCOT to update the Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
1.2.3.12	ERCOT Board Vote
(1)	Upon issuance of a TAC Report and Impact Analysis to the ERCOT Board, the ERCOT Board shall review the TAC Report and the Impact Analysis at the next regularly scheduled meeting.  For Urgent PGRRs, the ERCOT Board shall review the TAC Report and Impact Analysis at the next regularly scheduled meeting, unless a special meeting is required due to the urgency of the PGRR.
(2)	The quorum and voting requirements for ERCOT Board action are set forth in the ERCOT Bylaws.  In considering action on a TAC Report, the ERCOT Board shall:
(a)	Recommend approval of the PGRR as recommended in the TAC Report or as modified by the ERCOT Board;
(b)	Reject the PGRR;
(c)	Table the PGRR; or
(d)	Remand the PGRR to TAC with instructions.
(3)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a PGRR and that motion fails, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by the ERCOT Board unless at the same meeting the ERCOT Board later votes to recommend approval, table, or remand the PGRR.  The rejected PGRR shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 1.2.3.14, Appeal of Action.
(4)	Within three Business Days after the ERCOT Board takes action on a PGRR, ERCOT shall post a Board Report reflecting the ERCOT Board action on the ERCOT website.
1.2.3.13	PUCT Approval of Revision Requests
(1)	All PGRRs require approval by the PUCT prior to implementation.
(2)       Within three Business Days after the PUCT takes action on a PGRR, ERCOT shall post a PUCT Report reflecting the PUCT action on the ERCOT website.
1.2.3.14	Appeal of Action
 (1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the NERC Regional Entity, the Reliability Monitor, or ERCOT may appeal an ROS action to reject, table, or refer a PGRR directly to TAC.  Such appeal to the TAC must be submitted electronically to ERCOT by completing the designated form provided on the ERCOT website within seven days after the date of the relevant ROS appealable event.  ERCOT shall reject appeals made after that time.  ERCOT shall post appeals on the ERCOT website within three Business Days of receiving the appeal.  Appeals shall be heard at the next regularly scheduled TAC meeting that is at least seven days after the date of the requested appeal.  An appeal of a PGRR to TAC suspends consideration of the PGRR until the appeal has been decided by TAC.
(2)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the NERC Regional Entity, the Reliability Monitor, the IMM, or ERCOT may appeal a TAC action to reject, table, remand, or refer a PGRR directly to the ERCOT Board.  Appeals to the ERCOT Board shall be processed in accordance with the ERCOT Board Policies and Procedures.  An appeal of a PGRR to the ERCOT Board suspends consideration of the PGRR until the appeal has been decided by the ERCOT Board.
(3)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the IMM, or the NERC Regional Entity may appeal any decision of the ERCOT Board regarding a PGRR to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority.  Such appeal to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority must be made within any deadline prescribed by the PUCT or other Governmental Authority, but in any event no later than 35 days of the date of the relevant ERCOT Board appealable event.  Notice of any appeal to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority must be provided, at the time of the appeal, to ERCOT’s General Counsel.  If the PUCT or other Governmental Authority rules on the PGRR, ERCOT shall post the ruling on the ERCOT website.
1.2.4	Urgent Requests
(1)	The party submitting a PGRR may request that the PGRR be considered on an urgent timeline (“Urgent”) only when the submitter can reasonably show that an existing Planning Guide provision is impairing or could imminently impair ERCOT System reliability or wholesale or retail market operations, or is causing or could imminently cause a discrepancy between a Settlement formula and a provision of the ERCOT Protocols.
(2)	The ROS may designate the PGRR for Urgent consideration if a submitter requests Urgent status or upon valid motion in a regularly scheduled meeting of the ROS.  Criteria for designating a PGRR as Urgent are that the PGRR requires immediate attention due to:
(a)	Serious concerns about ERCOT System reliability or market operations under the unmodified language; or

(b)	The crucial nature of a Settlement activity conducted pursuant to any Settlement formula.

(3)	ERCOT shall prepare an Impact Analysis for Urgent PGRRs as soon as practicable.
(4)	ROS shall consider the Urgent PGRR and Impact Analysis, if available, at the next regularly scheduled ROS meeting, or at a special meeting called by the ROS leadership to consider the Urgent PGRR.  The WMS may monitor Urgent PGRRs and shall submit comments as appropriate.
(5)	If the submitter desires to further expedite processing of the PGRR, a request for voting via email may be submitted to the ROS chair.  The ROS chair may grant the request for voting via email.  Such voting shall be conducted pursuant to the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures.  
(6)	If recommended for approval by ROS, ERCOT shall post an ROS Report on the ERCOT website within three Business Days after ROS takes action.  The TAC chair may request action from TAC to accelerate or alter the procedures described herein, as needed, to address the urgency of the situation.
(7)	Any Urgent PGRRs shall be subject to an Impact Analysis pursuant to Section 1.2.3.8, ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report, and ERCOT Board consideration pursuant to Section 1.2.3.12, ERCOT Board Vote.
1.2.5	Planning Guide Revision Implementation
(1) 	Following PUCT approval, ERCOT shall implement PGRRs on the first day of the month following PUCT approval, unless otherwise provided in the PUCT Report for the approved PGRR.
(2)	For such other PGRRs, the Impact Analysis shall provide an estimated amount of time required to implement the PGRR and ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice as soon as practicable, but no later than ten days prior to the actual implementation, unless a different notice period is required in the PUCT Report for the approved PGRR. 
(3)	ERCOT shall implement an Administrative PGRR on the first day of the month following PUCT approval.

ERCOT Planning Guide

Section 2:  Definitions and Acronyms

April 1, 2025

____________________________________________________________________________________________
 
2	DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS
2.1	DEFINITIONS
Relevant terms and definitions used in the Planning Guide can be found in Protocol Section 2, Definitions and Acronyms.  The terms within this Section 2.1 contains terms not defined in Protocols.
LINKS TO DEFINITIONS:
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z;
List of Acronyms

A
[Back to Top]
B
[Back to Top] 
C
[Back to Top]
D
[Back to Top]
E
[Back to Top]
F
[Back to Top]
G
[Back to Top]
H
[Back to Top]
I
[Back to Top]
J
[Back to Top]
K
[Back to Top]
L
[Back to Top]
M
Manual System Adjustment
Operator actions, with consequences allowed by Section 4, Transmission Planning Criteria, in response to an outage in the ERCOT System, including, but not limited to circuit switching or changes to schedules of Generation Resources, but excluding the physical repair or replacement of any damaged equipment.
[Back to Top]
[PGRR118:  Replace the definition “Manual System Adjustment” above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
Manual System Adjustment
Operator actions, with consequences allowed by Section 4, Transmission Planning Criteria, in response to an outage in the ERCOT System, including, but not limited to circuit switching or changes to schedules of Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), but excluding the physical repair or replacement of any damaged equipment.
N
[Back to Top]
O
[Back to Top]
P
[Back to Top]
Q
[Back to Top]
R
[Back to Top]
S
[Back to Top]
T
[Back to Top]
U
[Back to Top]
V
[Back to Top]
W
[Back to Top]
X
[Back to Top]
Y
[Back to Top]
Z
[Back to Top]
2.2	ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CY	Current Year
FIS	Full Interconnection Study
FY	Future Year
GIC	Geomagnetically-Induced Current
GIM	Generator Interconnection or Modification
GINR	Generation Interconnection or Change Request
GMD	Geomagnetic Disturbance
GRRA	Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment
LTSA	Long-Term System Assessment
RIOO	Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations
SSR	Subsynchronous Resonance
TCEQ	Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
TPIT	Transmission Project and Information Tracking






ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 3:  Regional Planning
April 1, 2025







 
3	REGIONAL PLANNING	1
3.1	COMMUNICATIONS	1
3.1.1	Overview of Major Transmission Planning Activities	1
3.1.1.1	Long-Term System Assessment	1
3.1.1.2	Regional Transmission Plan	2
3.1.1.3	Regional Planning Group Project Reviews	2
3.1.1.4	Generation Interconnection Process	3
3.1.1.5	Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Vulnerability Assessment	3
3.1.1.6	Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment (GRRA)	4
3.1.2	Regional Planning Group Project Submission	5
3.1.2.1	All Projects	5
3.1.3	Project Evaluation	6
3.1.3.1	Definitions of Reliability-Driven and Economic-Driven Projects	8
3.1.3.2	Reliability-Driven Project Evaluation	9
3.1.4	Regional Transmission Plan Development Process	9
3.1.4.1	Development of Regional Transmission Plan	9
3.1.4.1.1	Regional Transmission Plan Cases	10
3.1.4.2	Use of Regional Transmission Plan	11
3.1.5	Regional Planning Group Comment Process	12
3.1.6	Notify PUCT of Recommended Transmission Projects	13
3.1.7	Steady State Transmission Planning Load Forecast	13
3.1.8	Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities	14
3.1.9	Transmission Interconnection Study	16

 
3	REGIONAL PLANNING
3.1	Communications
3.1.1	Overview of Major Transmission Planning Activities
(1)	The process of planning a reliable and efficient transmission system for the ERCOT Region is composed of several types of activities and studies.  
(2)	The effective date for the Year 6 case is the 2014 Steady State Working Group (SSWG) Data Set B base case release date.  Consideration of the Year 6 case in the Regional Transmission Plan is required starting in 2014.
3.1.1.1	Long-Term System Assessment
(1)	The Long-Term System Assessment (LTSA) is performed by ERCOT in coordination with the Regional Planning Group (RPG) on a biennial basis (in even-numbered years) and reviewed annually.  The study uses scenario analysis techniques to assess the potential needs of the ERCOT System up to 20 years into the future.  The role of the LTSA is not to recommend the construction of specific system upgrades, due to the high degree of uncertainty associated with the amount and location of loads and Resources in this timeframe.  Instead, the role of the LTSA is to evaluate the system upgrades that are indicated under each of a wide variety of scenarios in order to identify upgrades that are robust across a range of scenarios or might be more economic than the upgrades that would be determined considering only needs of Years 1 to 6 in the Regional Transmission Plan development.
[PGRR116:  Insert paragraph (2) below upon system implementation of NPRR1240:]
(2)	ERCOT shall post the LTSA as follows:
(a)	Versions that include ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) shall be posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area;
(b)	Versions that include both ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the MIS Certified Area for Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) only; and
(c)	Versions redacted of ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the ERCOT website.

3.1.1.2	Regional Transmission Plan
(1)	The Regional Transmission Plan is developed annually by ERCOT, in coordination with the RPG and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs).  The Regional Transmission Plan addresses regional and ERCOT-wide reliability and economic transmission needs and the planned improvements to meet those needs for the upcoming six years starting with the SSWG base cases.  These planned improvements include projects previously approved by the ERCOT Board, projects previously reviewed by the RPG, new projects that will be refined at the appropriate time by TSPs in order to complete RPG review, and the local projects currently planned by TSPs.  Combined, these projects represent ERCOT’s plan which addresses the reliability and efficiency of the ERCOT System in order to meet North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, the Protocols, Nodal Operating Guides and this Planning Guide.  Projects that are included in the Regional Transmission Plan are not considered to have been endorsed by ERCOT until they have undergone the appropriate level of RPG Project Review as outlined in Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, if required.  The process used by ERCOT to develop the Regional Transmission Plan is outlined in Section 3.1.4, Regional Transmission Plan Development Process.
(2)	ERCOT shall post the Regional Transmission Plan by December 31 of each year as follows:
(a)	Versions that include ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) shall be posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area;
(b)	Versions that include both ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only; and
(c)	Versions redacted of ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the ERCOT website.
(3)	ERCOT shall include in the Regional Transmission Plan report a list of Transmission Facilities that are loaded above 95% of their applicable Ratings for the following conditions:
(a)	Normal system conditions; or 
(b)	Following the contingency loss of a single generating unit, transmission circuit, transformer, or common tower outage.
3.1.1.3	Regional Planning Group Project Reviews
(1)	Except for minor transmission projects that have only localized impacts and projects that are directly associated with the interconnection of new Generation Resources, all transmission projects in the ERCOT Region undergo a formal review by the RPG in accordance with Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  In addition, ERCOT performs an independent analysis of the need for major transmission projects that are submitted for RPG Project Review.  The affirmative result of this review is formal endorsement of the project by ERCOT.  This ERCOT project endorsement is intended to support, to the extent applicable, a finding by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) that a project is necessary for the service, accommodation, convenience, or safety of the public within the meaning of Public Utility Regulatory Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 37.056 (Vernon 1998 and Supp. 2007) and P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.101, Certification Criteria.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(1)	Except for minor transmission projects that have only localized impacts and projects that are directly associated with the interconnection of new Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), all transmission projects in the ERCOT Region undergo a formal review by the RPG in accordance with Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  In addition, ERCOT performs an independent analysis of the need for major transmission projects that are submitted for RPG Project Review.  The affirmative result of this review is formal endorsement of the project by ERCOT.  This ERCOT project endorsement is intended to support, to the extent applicable, a finding by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) that a project is necessary for the service, accommodation, convenience, or safety of the public within the meaning of Public Utility Regulatory Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 37.056 (Vernon 1998 and Supp. 2007) and P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.101, Certification Criteria.
3.1.1.4	Generation Interconnection Process
(1)	This process facilitates the interconnection of new generation units in the ERCOT Region by assessing the transmission upgrades necessary for new generating units to operate reliably.  The process to study interconnecting new generation or modifying an existing generation interconnection to the ERCOT Transmission Grid is covered in Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification.  The generation interconnection study process primarily covers the direct connection of generation Facilities to the ERCOT Transmission Grid and directly-related projects.  Additional upgrades to the ERCOT Transmission Grid that might be cost-effective as a result of new or modified generation may be initiated by any stakeholder through the RPG Project Review procedure described in Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, at the appropriate time, subject to the confidentiality provisions in Section 5.    
3.1.1.5	Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Vulnerability Assessment
(1)	The purpose of Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) vulnerability assessments is to provide a coordinated assessment and corrective action plan(s) for the ERCOT System to meet ERCOT and NERC GMD reliability performance criteria for GMD events.  The most recent Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) system models developed and maintained by ERCOT in collaboration with the TSPs and Resource Entities as described in Section 6.11, Process for Developing Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) System Models, shall be used as the basis for the ERCOT benchmark and supplemental GMD vulnerability assessments.  Projects that are included in the corrective action plan(s) are not considered to have been endorsed by ERCOT until they have undergone the appropriate level of RPG Project Review as outlined in Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, if required.  The process used by ERCOT to develop the GMD benchmark and supplemental vulnerability assessments is outlined in Section 3.1.8, Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities.
3.1.1.6	Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment (GRRA) 
(1)	ERCOT shall perform the Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment (GRRA) in coordination with the RPG on a biennial basis in even-numbered years to assess the reliability and resiliency of the ERCOT System in extreme weather scenarios.  The study shall:
(a)	Consider the impact of different levels of thermal and renewable generation availability;
(b)	Identify areas of the ERCOT Region that face significant grid reliability and resiliency issues, taking into account the impact of potential Outages caused by regional extreme weather scenarios on Customers; and
(c)	Identify transmission upgrades that are expected to increase the reliability or resiliency of the ERCOT System in extreme weather scenarios based on the criteria established in Section 4.1.2, Resiliency Criteria.
(2)	Extreme weather scenarios shall be selected for one or more study cases.  The study cases prepared will be adjusted to have sufficient power supply to meet the demand.  The study cases shall be based on the current Regional Transmission Plan study cases, utilizing coincident load values, and may include scenarios that vary one or more of the following modeling assumptions:
(a)	Different patterns of generation; 
(b)	Extreme peak load; 
(c)	Multiple Transmission Element Outages; and/or
(d)	Multiple Generation Resource Outages.
(3)	Under the extreme weather study scenarios described in paragraph (2) above, the post-contingency performance of the ERCOT System shall be evaluated for the following contingency events:
(a)	Categories P0, P1, and P2.1 as defined in NERC Reliability Standard TPL-001, System Performance Under Normal Conditions; and 
(b)	Common tower outages as defined in Section 4.1.1.1, Planning Assumptions.
3.1.2	Regional Planning Group Project Submission
(1)	Transmission projects that are proposed for RPG Review, pursuant to Protocol Section 3.11.4.1, Project Submission, shall be submitted according to the provisions outlined in Section 3.1.2.1, All Projects.  
3.1.2.1	All Projects
(1)	The submittal of each transmission project (60 kV and above) for RPG Project Review should include the following elements:
(a)	The proposed project description including expected cost, feasible alternative(s) considered, transmission topology and Transmission Facility modeling parameter data, and all study cases used to generate results supporting the need for the project in electronic format (powerflow data should be in PTI Power System Simulator for Engineering (PSS/E) RAWD format).  Also, the submission should include accurate maps and one-line diagrams showing locations of the proposed project and feasible alternatives;
(b)	Identification of the SSWG, Dynamics Working Group (DWG), or Regional Transmission Plan powerflow cases used as a basis for the study and any associated changes that describe and allow accurate modeling of the proposed project;
(c)	Description and data for all changes made to the SSWG base cases or Regional Transmission Plan cases used to identify the need for the project, such as Generation Resource unavailability and area peak load forecast;  
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(c)	Description and data for all changes made to the SSWG base cases or Regional Transmission Plan cases used to identify the need for the project, such as Resource unavailability and area peak load forecast;  
(d)	A description of the reliability and/or economic problem that is being solved; 
(e)	Information that supports any load values that differ from the load forecast used in the base cases identified in item (b) above, including any relevant historical load information or evidence demonstrating that a submitted load value is Substantiated Load;
(f)	A description of the Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) impact of the proposed project to the generation Facilities in the system pursuant to Protocol Section 3.22.1, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment, and potential SSR Countermeasure plan for any identified SSR vulnerability, if applicable; 
(g)	Desired/needed in-service date for the project, and feasible in-service date, if different; 
(h)	The phone number and email address of the single point of contact who can respond to ERCOT and RPG participant questions or requests for additional information necessary for stakeholder review; and
(i)	Analysis of rejected alternatives, including cost estimates, and other factors considered in the comparison of alternatives with the proposed project.
(2)	Both transmission and distribution solutions to performance deficiencies may be considered where applicable.  
(3)	If there is any other information, not included above, that the submitting party believes is relevant to consideration of the need for any submitted project, the submitting party should include that information in the project submission.     
3.1.3	Project Evaluation
(1)	ERCOT and the RPG shall evaluate proposed transmission projects using a variety of tools and techniques as needed to ensure that the system is able to meet applicable reliability criteria in a cost-effective manner.  For most proposed projects, several alternatives will be identified to meet the reliability criteria or other performance improvement objectives that the proposed project is designed to meet.  The project alternative with the expected lowest cost over the life of the project is generally recommended, subject to consideration of the expected long-term system needs in the area, including, as applicable, any evidence of Substantiated Load, and subject to consideration of the relative operational impacts of the alternatives.  
(2)	In some cases, one alternative may be to dispatch the system in such a way that all reliability requirements are met, even without the proposed transmission project or any transmission alternative, resulting in a less efficient dispatch than what would be required to meet the reliability requirements if the proposed project was in place.  Consideration of the merits of this alternative relative to the proposed transmission project is more complex.  To facilitate the discussion and consideration of these alternatives, ERCOT has adopted certain definitions and practices, described in paragraph (4) of Protocol Section 3.11.2, Planning Criteria, and Sections 3.1.3.1, Definitions of Reliability-Driven and Economic-Driven Projects, and 3.1.3.2, Reliability-Driven Project Evaluation below.
(3)	In conducting an independent review of any project, ERCOT may, in its discretion, make adjustments to the planning case to ensure that the case reaches a solution.  When conducting an independent review of any project classified as Tier 1 pursuant to Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, ERCOT must provide reasonable advance notice to the RPG of any proposed adjustments and an opportunity for stakeholder comment on them.  
(4)	As part of its independent review of any project classified as Tier 1 pursuant to Protocol Section 3.11.4, ERCOT shall: 
(a)	Perform a generation sensitivity analysis.  The generation sensitivity analysis will evaluate the effect that proposed Generation Resources in or near the study area will have on a recommended transmission project.  Generation Resources that have signed Standard Generation Interconnection Agreements (SGIAs) but were not included in the study cases because they did not meet all of the requirements for inclusion in the cases pursuant to Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, will be included in the sensitivity analysis.  ERCOT shall not consider the results of the generation sensitivity analysis in determining project need during its independent review of the project; and
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(a)	Perform a generation sensitivity analysis.  The generation sensitivity analysis will evaluate the effect that proposed Generation Resources and/or ESRs in or near the study area will have on a recommended transmission project.  Generation Resources and ESRs that have signed Standard Generation Interconnection Agreements (SGIAs) but were not included in the study cases because they did not meet all of the requirements for inclusion in the cases pursuant to Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, will be included in the sensitivity analysis.  ERCOT shall not consider the results of the generation sensitivity analysis in determining project need during its independent review of the project; and  
(b)	Evaluate impacts related to the load scaling used in the study on any constraints resulting in project recommendations.  The results of this evaluation shall be included in the final recommendations in the independent review.
(5)	ERCOT’s independent review shall incorporate and consider historical load and any Substantiated Load.
3.1.3.1	Definitions of Reliability-Driven and Economic-Driven Projects
(1)	Proposed transmission projects are categorized for evaluation purposes into two types:
(a)	Reliability-driven projects; and 
(b)	Economic-driven projects.
(2)	The differentiation between these two types of projects is based on whether a simultaneously-feasible, security-constrained generating unit commitment dispatch is expected to be available for all hours of the planning horizon that can resolve the system reliability issue that the proposed project is intended to resolve.  If it is not possible to simulate a dispatch of the Generation Resources such that all reliability criteria are met without the project, and the addition of the project allows the reliability criteria to be met, then the project is classified as a reliability-driven project.  If it is possible to simulate a dispatch of the Generation Resources in such a way that all reliability criteria are met without the project, but the project may allow the reliability criteria to be met at a lower total cost, then the project is classified as an economic-driven project.  When performing a simulation of the generating unit commitment and dispatch, only contingencies and limits that would be considered in the operations horizon shall be simulated.  
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(2)	The differentiation between these two types of projects is based on whether a simultaneously-feasible, security-constrained generating unit commitment and dispatch is expected to be available for all hours of the planning horizon that can resolve the system reliability issue that the proposed project is intended to resolve.  If it is not possible to simulate a dispatch of the Generation Resources and ESRs such that all reliability criteria are met without the project, and the addition of the project allows the reliability criteria to be met, then the project is classified as a reliability-driven project.  If it is possible to simulate a dispatch of the Generation Resources and ESRs in such a way that all reliability criteria are met without the project, but the project may allow the reliability criteria to be met at a lower total cost, then the project is classified as an economic-driven project.  When performing a simulation of the generating unit commitment and dispatch, only contingencies and limits that would be considered in the operations horizon shall be simulated. 
3.1.3.2	Reliability-Driven Project Evaluation
(1)	For reliability-driven projects, the comparison of project costs generally includes only the relative capital costs of the alternatives.  In the case of Tier 1 and 2 projects, any differences in expected ERCOT System production costs between the alternatives may be included in the consideration of the relative costs of the alternatives, due to larger potential impacts on losses and congestion of these projects.
3.1.4	Regional Transmission Plan Development Process
(1)	As prescribed by Section 3.1.1.2, Regional Transmission Plan, the purpose of the Regional Transmission Plan is to provide a coordinated plan for the ERCOT System.  This Section describes the process used by ERCOT to develop the Regional Transmission Plan.  While unanticipated changes in Load and generation may require additional projects to be needed that were not included in the current Regional Transmission Plan, or require additional evaluation of projects included in the current Regional Transmission Plan when they are submitted for RPG Project Review, the Regional Transmission Plan provides a reasonable and supportable basis for analyses of the planned ERCOT Transmission Grid.   
3.1.4.1	Development of Regional Transmission Plan
(1)	The planning process begins with computer modeling studies of the generation and Transmission Facilities and substation Loads under normal conditions in the ERCOT System.  Contingency conditions along with changes in Load and generation that might be expected to occur in operation of the ERCOT Transmission Grid are also modeled.  To maintain adequate service and minimize interruptions during Outages, model simulations are used to identify adverse results based upon the planning criteria and to examine the effectiveness of various problem-solving alternatives.
(2)	The effectiveness of each alternative will be evaluated under a variety of possible operating environments because Loads and operating conditions cannot be predicted with certainty.  As a result, repeated simulations under different conditions are often required.  In addition, options considered for future installation may affect other alternatives so that several different combinations must be evaluated, thereby multiplying the number of simulations required.
(3)	Once feasible alternatives have been identified, the process is continued with a comparison of those alternatives.  To determine the most favorable, the short-range and long-range benefits of each alternative must be considered including operating flexibility and compatibility with future plans.
3.1.4.1.1	Regional Transmission Plan Cases
(1)	The starting base cases for the Regional Transmission Plan development are created by removing all Tier 1, 2, and 3 projects that have not received RPG acceptance or, if applicable, ERCOT endorsement from the most recent SSWG base cases.

(2)	ERCOT shall set all non-seasonal Mothballed Generation Resources to out of service in the Regional Transmission Plan reliability base cases.  ERCOT shall add proposed Generation Resources that have met the criteria for inclusion in Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, to the Regional Transmission Plan base cases.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(2)	ERCOT shall set all non-seasonal Mothballed Generation Resources and Mothballed ESRs to out of service in the Regional Transmission Plan reliability base cases.  ERCOT shall add proposed Generation Resources and ESRs that have met the criteria for inclusion in Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, to the Regional Transmission Plan base cases. 
(3)	ERCOT shall update the Regional Transmission Plan reliability and economic base cases to reflect any updates to the amount of Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) capacity available to the ERCOT Region. 
(4)	ERCOT may, in its discretion, set a Generation Resource to out of service in the Regional Transmission Plan base cases prior to receiving a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource.  ERCOT must provide reasonable advance notice to the RPG of any proposed Generation Resource retirements/mothballs and allow an opportunity for stakeholder comments.
(a)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (4) above on the ERCOT website.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(4)	ERCOT may, in its discretion, set a Generation Resource or ESR to out of service in the Regional Transmission Plan base cases prior to receiving a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource.  ERCOT must provide reasonable advance notice to the RPG of any proposed Resource retirements/mothballs and allow an opportunity for stakeholder comments.
(a)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources and ESRs that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (4) above on the ERCOT website. 
(5)	In its Regional Transmission Plan studies, ERCOT shall first consider transmission needs without Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) actions.  After evaluating these needs, ERCOT may model a RAS in the Regional Transmission Plan cases only if ERCOT’s initial studies did not identify a transmission project to exit the RAS or if a transmission project to exit the RAS is not expected to be in service by the season and year the case represents.
[PGRR113:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1198:]
(5)	In its Regional Transmission Plan studies, ERCOT shall first consider transmission needs without Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) or Constraint Management Plan (CMP) actions.  After evaluating these needs, ERCOT may model a RAS or CMP in the Regional Transmission Plan cases only if ERCOT’s initial studies did not identify a transmission project to exit the RAS or CMP, or if a transmission project to exit the RAS or CMP is not expected to be in service by the season and year the case represents.
(6)	ERCOT may, in its discretion, make other adjustments to any Regional Transmission Plan base case to ensure that the case reaches a solution.  ERCOT must provide reasonable advance notice to the RPG of any proposed adjustments and an opportunity for stakeholder comment on them.   
3.1.4.2	Use of Regional Transmission Plan
(1)	If a project submitted for RPG review is included in the Regional Transmission Plan, and no changes are identified which would affect the need for the proposed project through the comment period described in Section 3.1.5, Regional Planning Group Comment Process, then the Regional Transmission Plan may serve as the ERCOT Independent Review of the proposed project.
(2)	Tier 1, 2, and 3 projects that are included in the Regional Transmission Plan should be submitted for RPG Project Review at an appropriate lead time.  Generally, this lead time should be sufficient to allow the review to be completed before the TSP reaches the decision point at which it must initiate the engineering and procurement in order to meet the required in-service date, but not farther in advance than is necessary.  In general, these lead times will be three to four months for Tier 3 projects and six to seven months for Tier 1 and 2 projects.  
(3)	Tier 1, 2, and 3 projects that are included in the Regional Transmission Plan but do not reach this decision point before the development of the next year’s Regional Transmission Plan begins will be removed from the case used to develop the Regional Transmission Plan and will be re-evaluated as a part of the development of this subsequent Regional Transmission Plan.     
3.1.5	Regional Planning Group Comment Process
(1)	Any stakeholder may initiate an RPG project review in accordance with Protocol Section 3.11.4.1, Project Submission.  All project submissions should be sent electronically to rpg_submittal@ercot.com.  The RPG project review consists of the following steps:  
(a)	ERCOT will provide electronic copies of RPG project review submittals by email to the RPG within five Business Days of receipt and solicit comments or questions from the RPG;
(b)	ERCOT will assign a unique project identification number (RPG project number) to the RPG project review submittals according to the following convention:
yrRPGxxx
            where:	       yr is the calendar year the RPG project is submitted
	             RPG indicates RPG project
	                   xxx is a sequence number beginning with 001 (reset for each year)
(c)	All concerns/questions or objections about the submitted project by any stakeholder or ERCOT should be submitted by email to the RPG within 15 Business Days after ERCOT’s transmittal to the RPG;
(d)	Each Entity providing comments should provide a “single” complete comment about each project by the end of the 15-Business Day comment period rather than sending multiple comments at various times or from various individuals;
(e)	Any questions related to data deficiency should be submitted to ERCOT and the submitting party immediately;
(f)	If concerns or objections about a project are received during the 15-Business Day comment period, the project will be put into “study mode.”  During study mode, the submitting party shall respond to any concerns or objections and provide additional information, if necessary, by email to the RPG until all concerns are resolved or until ERCOT assesses that a reasonable effort has been made to resolve all concerns or objections.  A submitting party may make modifications to a Tier 3 project to address concerns or objections without having to resubmit the project so long as the modifications do not result in the project being classified as a Tier 1 or 2 project.  Study mode shall end no later than 20 Business Days following the end of the comment period, unless ERCOT finds good cause to extend study mode;
(g)	The submitting party should answer all questions and respond to all concerns in a timely manner;
(h)	Comments should be based on Good Utility Practice and sound engineering judgment.  Suggestions should be able to be implemented by the TSP constructing and operating the project; and
(i)	ERCOT will post all project submissions, the comments received, and other information and databases associated with submitted transmission projects on the MIS Secure Area.
(j)	Comments received after the 15-Business Day comment period may be considered by ERCOT or the submitting party, but a response is not required.
3.1.6	Notify PUCT of Recommended Transmission Projects
(1)	ERCOT will notify the PUCT of the disposition of all Tier 1 or 2 projects and of the designated TSPs for those projects.  ERCOT will then support ERCOT-endorsed projects in future Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) proceedings required for those projects through the use of filed supporting documents and testimony if necessary.
3.1.7	Steady State Transmission Planning Load Forecast
(1)	ERCOT shall use the following process for determining the load level to be used in the starting base cases for the Regional Transmission Plan and in the steady-state evaluation of a Tier 1 or Tier 2 project pursuant to Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process:
(a)	ERCOT will compare the ERCOT 90/10 load forecast with the summed SSWG bus-level load forecast for each Weather Zone.
(b)	If the ERCOT 90/10 load forecast is higher, ERCOT will use this forecast for the Weather Zone.
(c)	If the SSWG load forecast for a Weather Zone is higher than or equal to the ERCOT 90/10 load forecast, ERCOT will use the ERCOT 90/10 load forecast plus any additional historical load and Substantiated Load submitted by the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) for the Weather Zone. 
3.1.8	Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities
(1)	As required by the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, ERCOT shall employ the GIC system models described in Section 6.11, Process for Developing Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) System Models, to perform simulations to identify maximum effective GIC flow in the high side wye-grounded transformers for the worst case geoelectric field orientation for each transformer for the benchmark and supplemental GMD events.  ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area the preliminary maximum effective GIC flows and preliminary GIC time series results to the TSPs and Resource Entities for comment before finalizing the results.  Upon consideration of the comments, ERCOT shall make the final maximum effective GIC flows in the high side wye-grounded transformers and the final GIC time series available to TSPs and Resource Entities by posting this data on the ERCOT MIS Secure Area.
(2)	Each TSP and Resource Entity that owns a high side wye-grounded transformer(s) with the high side terminal operated at 200 kV or higher within the ERCOT planning area shall perform the benchmark and supplemental transformer thermal impact assessment(s) as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard and shall provide to ERCOT any suggested actions to mitigate the impact of GICs on those transformers with the high side terminal operated at 200 kV or higher within 18 months of the date of ERCOT notification to TSPs and Resource Entities that the final GIC flow results are posted on the MIS Secure Area. 
(3)	ERCOT and the TSPs shall develop for approval by the TAC, criteria for acceptable steady-state voltage performance during the benchmark and supplemental GMD events.
(4)	ERCOT in collaboration with the TSPs and Resource Entities shall perform the ERCOT benchmark and supplemental GMD vulnerability assessments as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard; and may set a Generation Resource to out of service prior to receiving an NSO if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the preliminary results of the GMD vulnerability assessments to the TSPs and Resource Entities for comment before finalizing the results.  Upon request, ERCOT shall make available to the TSPs the GIC system models and other model information used for the GMD vulnerability assessments, including suggested actions described in paragraph (2) above.
(a)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (4) above on the ERCOT website.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(4)	ERCOT in collaboration with the TSPs and Resource Entities shall perform the ERCOT benchmark and supplemental GMD vulnerability assessments as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard; and may set a Generation Resource or ESR to out of service prior to receiving an NSO if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the preliminary results of the GMD vulnerability assessments to the TSPs and Resource Entities for comment before finalizing the results.  Upon request, ERCOT shall make available to the TSPs the GIC system models and other model information used for the GMD vulnerability assessments, including suggested actions described in paragraph (2) above.
(a)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources and ESRs that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (4) above on the ERCOT website.
(5)	ERCOT shall finalize the ERCOT benchmark and supplemental GMD vulnerability assessments, including any associated corrective action plans, post them as follows, and notify TSPs and Resource Entities of the posting:
(a)	Versions that include ECEII shall be posted on the MIS Secure Area;
(b)	Versions that include both ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only; and
(c)	Versions redacted of ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the ERCOT website.
(6)	For each GMD vulnerability assessment that does not satisfy applicable performance requirements, each impacted TSP and Resource Entity, in collaboration with ERCOT, shall develop and document corrective action plan(s) for their facilities, and develop a timetable, subject to revision, for implementing the corrective action plan(s).  For any corrective action plan proposing upgrades to the transmission system that are subject to Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, review shall be conducted in accordance with the process described therein.  For any corrective action plan that is not subject to the review process described in Protocol Section 3.11.4, ERCOT shall review the corrective action plan to ensure that it satisfies applicable performance requirements.  Any corrective action plan that proposes operational actions shall be reviewed pursuant to Nodal Operating Guide Section 11, Constraint Management Plans and Remedial Action Schemes.
(a)	If a situation beyond the control of the TSP or Resource Entity prevents implementation of a corrective action plan within the timetable for implementation required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, the TSP or Resource Entity shall submit a revised corrective action plan, updated timetable, and documentation supporting the request for extension of time, as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, to ERCOT within 30 days of the revision of the corrective action plan.
(b)	After receipt of all information required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, ERCOT shall submit the request for extension of time to the NERC Regional Entity, as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, on behalf of the TSP or Resource Entity.
(7)	ERCOT shall post the GMD vulnerability assessment reports and corrective action plan(s) on the ERCOT MIS Secure Area within 90 calendar days of development or revision.
(8)	ERCOT in collaboration with TSPs and Resource Entities shall implement a process for obtaining GIC monitor data and geomagnetic field data from TSPs, Resource Entities, or other available sources as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard.
3.1.9	Transmission Interconnection Study
(1)	ERCOT shall perform an annual transmission interconnection study to analyze the reliability impact of any transmission projects 100 kV or above that are expected to be in-service before the completion of the next Regional Transmission Plan and were not included in the current Regional Transmission Plan, an RPG project submission, or a Generation Interconnection or Change Request (GINR) study pursuant to Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification. 
(a)	ERCOT shall identify a list of transmission projects 100 kV or above that need to be included in the annual transmission interconnection study and shall send the list to the TSPs that own the projects.
(b)	Within 20 Business Days of receipt of the list, each TSP that owns an identified transmission project shall send to ERCOT a PSS/E or PowerWorld formatted incremental change file to model the project in the current Regional Transmission Plan study cases.
(c)	ERCOT shall post a study report detailing its findings on the MIS Secure Area within 20 Business Days of completion. 
(2)	After each Transmission Project and Information Tracking (TPIT) update ERCOT shall identify a list of transmission projects 100 kV or above that are expected to be in-service before the completion of the next annual transmission interconnection study and were not included in the previous transmission interconnection study, Regional Transmission Plan, an RPG project submission, or a GINR study pursuant to Section 5.  ERCOT shall send the list to the TSPs that own the projects.
(a)	Within 20 Business Days of receipt of the list, each TSP that owns an identified transmission project shall send to ERCOT a study report detailing the reliability impact analysis it conducted for the project.  At a minimum the report shall identify the study base case(s), contingencies, and results.
(b)	ERCOT shall review the TSP reports and provide comments to the TSP within 20 Business Days of receipt.







ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 4:  Transmission Planning Criteria
April 1, 2025


 
4	TRANSMISSION PLANNING CRITERIA	1
4.1	INTRODUCTION	1
4.1.1	Reliability Criteria	2
4.1.1.1	Planning Assumptions	2
4.1.1.2	Reliability Performance Criteria	3
4.1.1.3	Voltage Stability Margin	6
4.1.1.4	Steady State Voltage Response Criteria	6
4.1.1.5	Transient Voltage Response Criteria	7
4.1.1.6	Damping Criteria	7
4.1.1.7	Minimum Deliverability Criteria	7
4.1.1.8	 Maintenance Outage Reliability Criteria	8
4.1.2	Resiliency Criteria	8

 
4	TRANSMISSION PLANNING CRITERIA
4.1	Introduction
(1)	ERCOT employs reliability, economic, and resiliency criteria in evaluating the need for transmission system improvements.  The economic criteria are included in Protocol Section 3.11.2, Planning Criteria.  This Planning Guide provides the reliability and resiliency criteria.
(2)	The ERCOT System consists of those generation and Transmission Facilities (60 kV and higher voltages) that are controlled by individual Market Participants and that function as part of an integrated and coordinated system.
(3)	To maintain reliable operation of the ERCOT System, it is necessary that all stakeholders observe and subscribe to certain minimum planning criteria.  The criteria set forth in this Section 4.1 constitute the aforementioned minimum planning criteria.  Tests outlined herein shall be performed to determine conformance to these minimum criteria; however, ERCOT recognizes that events more severe than those outlined in these criteria could cause grid separation and other tests may also be performed.
(4)	The complexity and uncertainty inherent in the planning and operation of the ERCOT System make exhaustive studies impracticable; therefore, to gain maximum benefit from the limited number of tests performed, the selection of the specific tests and the frequency of their performance will be made solely upon the basis of the expected value of the reliability information obtainable from the test.
(5)	ERCOT shall perform steady-state, short circuit, and dynamic analyses appropriate to ensure the reliability of the ERCOT System and identify appropriate solutions.
(6)	Each Transmission Service Provider (TSP) will perform steady-state, short circuit, and dynamic analyses appropriate to ensure the reliability of its portion of the ERCOT System and implement appropriate solutions to meet the reliability performance criteria in this Section 4.1.
(7)	The base cases created by the Steady-State Working Group (SSWG) and System Protection Working Group (SPWG) are available for use by Market Participants.  
(8)	If a TSP has its own planning criteria in addition to those defined in this Planning Guide, the TSP shall provide documentation of those criteria to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall post the documentation on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.  The TSP shall notify ERCOT of any changes to their planning criteria and provide revised documentation within 30 days of such change.
[PGRR116:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1240:]
(8)	If a TSP has its own planning criteria in addition to those defined in this Planning Guide, the TSP shall provide documentation of those criteria to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall post the documentation on the ERCOT website.  The TSP shall notify ERCOT of any changes to their planning criteria and provide revised documentation within 30 days of such change.
4.1.1	Reliability Criteria
4.1.1.1	Planning Assumptions
(1)	A contingency loss of an element includes the loss of an element with or without a single line-to-ground or three-phase fault.    
(2)	A common tower outage is the contingency loss of a double-circuit transmission line consisting of two circuits sharing a tower for 0.5 miles or greater.
(3)	Unavailability of a single generating unit includes an entire Combined Cycle Train, if no part of the train can operate with one of the units Off-Line as provided in the Resource Registration data.
(4)	The contingency loss of a single generating unit shall include the loss of an entire Combined Cycle Train, if that is the expected consequence.
(5)	The following assumptions may be applied to planning studies:
(a)	Reasonable variations of load forecast, including forecasted load growth based on Substantiated Load;
(b)	Reasonable variations of generation commitment and dispatch applicable to transmission planning analyses on a case-by-case basis may include, but are not limited to, the following methods:
(i)	Production cost model simulation, security constrained optimal power flow, or similar modeling tools that analyze the ERCOT System using hourly generation dispatch assumptions; 
(ii)	Modeling of high levels of intermittent generation conditions; or
(iii)	Modeling of low levels of or no intermittent generation conditions.
(6)	Assumed Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) imports and exports will be curtailed as necessary to meet reliability criteria in planning studies. 
(7)	Manual System Adjustments shall not increase the amount of consequential load loss following a common tower outage, or the contingency loss of a single generating unit, transmission circuit, transformer, shunt device, flexible alternating current transmission system (FACTS) device, or DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load, with or without a single line-to-ground fault.
4.1.1.2	Reliability Performance Criteria
(1)	The following reliability performance criteria (summarized in Table 1: ERCOT-specific Reliability Performance Criteria, below) shall be applicable to planning analyses in the ERCOT Region: 
(a)	With all Facilities in their normal state, following a common tower outage with or without a single line-to-ground fault, all Facilities shall be within their applicable Ratings, the ERCOT System shall remain stable with no cascading or uncontrolled Islanding, and there shall be no non-consequential Load loss;
(b)	With all Facilities in their normal state, following an outage of a DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load with or without a single line-to-ground fault, all Facilities shall be within their applicable Ratings, the ERCOT System shall remain stable with no cascading or uncontrolled Islanding, and there shall be no non-consequential Load loss;
(c)	With any single generating unit unavailable, followed by Manual System Adjustments, followed by a common tower outage or outage of a DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load with or without a single line-to-ground fault, all Facilities shall be within their applicable Ratings, the ERCOT System shall remain stable with no cascading or uncontrolled Islanding, and there shall be no non-consequential Load loss;
(d)	With any single transformer, with the high voltage winding operated at 300 kV or above and low voltage winding operated at 100 kV or above unavailable, followed by Manual System Adjustments, followed by a common tower outage, or the contingency loss of a single generating unit, transmission circuit, transformer, shunt device, FACTS device, or DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load with or without a single line-to-ground fault, all Facilities shall be within their applicable Ratings, the ERCOT System shall remain stable with no cascading or uncontrolled Islanding, and there shall be no non-consequential Load loss.  An operational solution may be planned on a permanent basis to resolve a performance deficiency under this condition; and

(e)	With any single DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load unavailable, followed by Manual System Adjustments, followed by a common tower outage, or the contingency loss of a single generating unit, transmission circuit, transformer, shunt device, FACTS device, or DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load, with or without a single line-to-ground fault, all Facilities shall be within their applicable Ratings, the ERCOT System shall remain stable with no cascading or uncontrolled Islanding, and there shall be no non-consequential Load loss.  An operational solution may be planned on a permanent basis to resolve a performance deficiency under this condition.
Initial Condition	Event	Facilities within Applicable Ratings and System Stable with No Cascading or Uncontrolled Outages	Non-consequential Load Loss Allowed
1	Normal System	Common tower outage, DC Tie Resource outage, or DC Tie Load outage	Yes	No
2	Unavailability of a generating unit, followed by Manual System Adjustments	Common tower outage, DC Tie Resource outage, or DC Tie Load outage	Yes	No
3	Unavailability of a transformer with the high voltage winding operated at 300 kV or above and low voltage winding operated at 100 kV or above, followed by Manual System Adjustments	Common tower outage; or
Contingency loss of one of the following:
1.  Generating unit;
2.  Transmission circuit;
3.  Transformer;
4.  Shunt device; 
5.  FACTS device; or
6.  DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load	Yes	No
4	Unavailability of a DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load, followed by Manual System Adjustments	Common tower outage; or
Contingency loss of one of the following:
1.  Generating unit;
2.  Transmission circuit;
3.  Transformer;
4.  Shunt device; 
5.  FACTS device; or
6.  DC Tie Resource or DC Tie Load	Yes	No
Table 1: ERCOT-specific Reliability Performance Criteria
(2)	ERCOT and the TSPs shall endeavor to resolve any performance deficiencies as appropriate.  If a Transmission Facility improvement is required to meet the criteria in this Section 4.1.1.2, but the improvement cannot be implemented in time to resolve the performance deficiency, an interim solution may be used to resolve the deficiency until the improvement has been implemented.
(a)	A Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) shall not be planned to resolve a planning criteria performance deficiency unless it is expected that system conditions will change such that the RAS will no longer be needed within the next five years.
[PGRR113:  Replace item (a) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1198:]
(a)	A Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) or Constraint Management Plan (CMP) shall not be planned to resolve a planning criteria performance deficiency unless it is expected that system conditions will change such that the RAS or CMP will no longer be needed within the next five years.
4.1.1.3	Voltage Stability Margin 
(1)	In conducting its planning analyses, ERCOT and each TSP shall ensure that the voltage stability margin is sufficient to maintain post-transient voltage stability under the following study conditions for each ERCOT or TSP-defined area:
(a)	A 5% increase in Load above expected peak supplied from resources external to the ERCOT or TSP-defined areas and operating conditions in categories P0 and P1 of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements; and
(b)	A 2.5% increase in Load above expected peak supplied from resources external to the ERCOT or TSP-defined areas and operating conditions in categories P2 through P7 of the NERC Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements.
4.1.1.4	Steady State Voltage Response Criteria 
(1)	In conducting its planning analyses, ERCOT and each TSP shall ensure that all transmission level buses above 100 kV meet the following steady state voltage response and post-contingency voltage deviation criteria: 
(a)	0.95 per unit to 1.05 per unit in the pre-contingency state following the occurrence of any operating condition in category P0 of the NERC Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements;
(b)	0.90 per unit to 1.05 per unit in the post-contingency state following the occurrence of any operating condition in categories P1 through P7 of the NERC Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements; and  
(c) 	Following the occurrence of any operating condition in categories P1 through P7 of the NERC Reliability Standard further analysis to assess voltage stability is required in the event of a post-contingency steady-state voltage deviation that exceeds 8% at any load-serving bus above 100 kV, exclusive of buses on a radial system that serve only Resource Entities and/or Load.  After further analysis, ERCOT and the TSPs shall endeavor to resolve any voltage instability.
(2)	If a TSP has communicated to ERCOT that a Facility has unique characteristics and may operate outside of the above ranges and deviation (e.g. Facilities located near a series capacitor) or that the Facility needs to be operated in a more restrictive range (e.g. a nuclear plant, UVLS relay settings) or its system is designed to operate with different voltage limits or voltage deviation then the TSP’s specified limits will be considered acceptable.
4.1.1.5	Transient Voltage Response Criteria 
(1)	In conducting its planning analyses, ERCOT and each TSP shall ensure that all transmission level buses above 100 kV meet the following transient voltage response criteria: 
(a)	For any operating condition in category P1 of the NERC Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements, voltage shall recover to 0.90 p.u. within five seconds after clearing the fault; and  
(b)	For any operating condition in categories P2 through P7 of the NERC Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements, voltage shall recover to 0.90 p.u. within ten seconds after clearing the fault.  
4.1.1.6	Damping Criteria 
(1)	In conducting its planning analyses, ERCOT and each TSP shall ensure that, for any operating condition in categories P1 through P7 of the NERC Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements, ERCOT and each TSP shall ensure that power oscillation within the range of 0.2 Hz to 2 Hz decays with a minimum 3% damping ratio.
4.1.1.7	Minimum Deliverability Criteria
(1)	In conducting its planning analyses, ERCOT and each TSP shall ensure that an ERCOT-defined minimum percentage of capacity of each Resource described in paragraph (3) below can be delivered to serve peak system Load while meeting the following reliability criteria:
(a)	Category P0, P1, P2-1, P3, and P7 planning events from the NERC Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements; and
(b)	The ERCOT-specific reliability performance criteria included in Section 4.1.1.2, Reliability Performance Criteria.
(2)	The minimum percentage of capacity referenced in paragraph (1) above shall be applied to each Resource’s applicable Seasonal Net Max Sustainable Rating submitted through the Resource Registration process.
(3)	The minimum deliverability condition described in paragraph (1) applies to the following Resources:
(a)	Any Generation Resource utilizing combined cycle, steam turbine, combustion turbine, hydro, or reciprocating engine technology; or
(b)	Any Energy Storage Resource (ESR) meeting an ERCOT-defined minimum duration threshold.
(4)	Resources other than those described in paragraph (3) above may be redispatched as necessary to meet the requirements of this Section.
(5)	ERCOT-proposed revisions to the minimum percentage of capacity or minimum duration threshold for ESRs used to implement the requirements of this Section will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the ERCOT Board.
(a)	ERCOT will post the current values approved by the ERCOT Board pursuant to paragraph (5) above on the ERCOT website.
4.1.1.8		Maintenance Outage Reliability Criteria
(1)	In an off-peak system condition selected in accordance with paragraph (3) below, with any transmission element included in paragraph (2) below unavailable, followed by Manual System Adjustments, followed by a common tower outage or the contingency loss of a transmission circuit, transformer, shunt device, or FACTS device, with or without a single line-to-ground fault, all Facilities shall be within their applicable Ratings, the ERCOT System shall remain stable with no cascading or uncontrolled Islanding, and there shall be no non-consequential Load loss.  An operational solution may be planned on a permanent basis to resolve a performance deficiency under this condition.
(2)	The unavailability of the following transmission elements shall be considered for the requirements of this Section:
(a)	Any double-circuit transmission line consisting of two circuits sharing a tower of 0.5 miles or greater where both circuits must be removed from service for a maintenance outage; or
(b)	Any transmission circuit, transformer, shunt device, or FACTS device.
(3)	At least one off-peak system condition occurring outside of the Peak Load Season shall be selected for assessment.
4.1.2	Resiliency Criteria
(1)	As part of the resiliency analysis described in Section 3.1.1.6, Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment (GRRA), ERCOT shall identify those transmission upgrades that are necessary to:     
(a)	Prevent cascading, instability, or uncontrolled islanding; and/or
(b)	Reduce the impact of outages on customers.





ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 5:  Generator Interconnection or Modification

April 1, 2025


 
5	GENERATOR INTERCONNECTION OR MODIFICATION	1
5.1	INTRODUCTION	1
5.2	GENERAL PROVISIONS	1
5.2.1	Applicability	1
5.2.2	Initiation of Generator Interconnection or Modification	3
5.2.3	Confidentiality	5
5.2.4	Duty to Update Project Information and Respond to ERCOT and TDSP Requests for Information	5
5.2.5	Inactive Status	7
5.2.6	Project Cancellation Due to Failure to Comply with Requirements	8
5.2.7	Voluntary Project Cancellation	9
5.2.8	Interconnection Agreements and Procedures	9
5.2.8.1	Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement for Transmission-Connected Generators	9
5.2.8.2	Interconnection Agreement for Distribution-Connected Generators	10
5.2.8.3	Provisions for Municipally Owned Utilities and Cooperatives	10
5.2.9	Self-Limiting Facilities	11
5.3	INTERCONNECTION STUDY PROCEDURES FOR LARGE GENERATORS	12
5.3.1	Security Screening Study	12
5.3.2	Full Interconnection Study	14
5.3.2.1	Proof of Site Control	16
5.3.2.2	Full Interconnection Study Scoping Process	17
5.3.2.3	Full Interconnection Study Description and Methodology	18
5.3.2.4	Full Interconnection Study Elements	19
5.3.2.4.1	Steady-State Analysis	19
5.3.2.4.2	System Protection (Short-Circuit) Analysis	20
5.3.2.4.3	Dynamic and Transient Stability (Unit Stability, Voltage) Analysis	20
5.3.2.4.4	Facility Study	22
5.3.2.5	FIS Report and Follow-up	22
5.3.3	ERCOT Economic Study	23
5.3.4	Reactive Study	24
5.3.5	ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment	25
5.4	INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES FOR SMALL GENERATORS	27
5.4.1	Small Generator Review Meetings	27
5.4.2	Submission of Interconnection Agreement and TSP and/or DSP Studies and Technical Requirements	28
5.4.3	Reviews and Approval to Submit Model Information	28
5.4.4	Transmission System Reliability Impact	29
5.5	GENERATOR COMMISSIONING AND CONTINUING OPERATIONS	29








 
5	GENERATOR INTERCONNECTION OR MODIFICATION
5.1	Introduction
(1)	Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, defines the requirements and processes used to facilitate new or modified generation interconnections with the ERCOT System.  The requirements outlined in Section 5 are designed to:
(a)	Facilitate studies to identify potential system limitations associated with the proposed interconnection of new or modified generators to the ERCOT System and to determine the facilities required to interconnect new or modified generators to the ERCOT System;
(b)	Ensure that the interconnection of the new or modified generation is accomplished in a manner that maintains the reliability of the ERCOT System and complies with the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, Protocols, this Planning Guide, the Operating Guides, and any Applicable Legal Authority (ALA);
(c)	Specify the communications required between Interconnecting Entities (IEs), Distribution Service Providers (DSPs), Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), and ERCOT;
(d)	Provide for the best available information on future capacity additions for use in identifying, forecasting, and analyzing both short- and long-range ERCOT capabilities, demands, and reserves; and 
(e)	Provide ERCOT accurate data about new and modified generators to ensure that ERCOT and stakeholders have the information necessary for planning purposes.
5.2	General Provisions
5.2.1	Applicability
(1)	The requirements in Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, apply to the following:
(a)	Any Entity proposing to interconnect any generator with an aggregate nameplate capacity of one MW or greater, including but not limited to any Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR), to the ERCOT System;
(b)	Any Entity proposing to interconnect a Settlement Only Generator (SOG) to the ERCOT System; or
(c)	Any Resource Entity seeking to modify a Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG that is connected to the ERCOT System by:
(i)	Increasing the real power rating from that shown in the latest Resource Registration data by one MW or greater within a single year; 
(ii)	Changing the inverter, turbine, generator, or power converter associated with a facility with an aggregate real power rating of ten MW or greater, unless the replacement is in-kind;
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (ii) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(ii)	Changing the inverter, turbine, generator, battery modules, or power converter associated with a facility with an aggregate real power rating of ten MW or greater, unless the replacement is in-kind;
(iii)	Modifying any control settings or equipment of Inverter-Based Resources (IBRs) that impact the dynamic response (such as voltage, frequency, and current injections) at the Point of Interconnection (POI) in a manner that is deemed to require further study in accordance with the process outlined in paragraph (5) of Section 5.5, Generator Commissioning and Continuing Operations;  
(iv)	Changing or adding a POI to a facility with an aggregate real power rating of ten MW or greater; or
(v)	Increasing the aggregate nameplate capacity of a generator less than ten MW to ten MW or greater.
(2)	For the purposes of Section 5, the term “generator” includes but is not limited to a Generation Resource, SOG, and ESR.
(3)	For the purposes of determining the appropriate requirements in Section 5, a generator is considered a “large generator” if it currently has or is proposed to have an aggregate nameplate capacity of ten MW or greater.  A generator is considered a “small generator” if it currently has or is proposed to have an aggregate nameplate capacity of less than ten MW.
(4)	Notwithstanding paragraph (3), above, if a Resource Entity is proposing to increase the real power rating of an existing generator by one MW or greater but less than ten MW, that generator shall be considered a small generator for the purposes of the interconnection process described in Section 5.
(5)	Notwithstanding paragraphs (3) and (4), above, if a Resource Entity is proposing to increase a generator’s real power rating by ten MW or more, or is proposing to increase a generator’s real power rating from less than ten MW to ten MW or more, that generator shall be considered a large generator for the purposes of the interconnection process described in Section 5.
(6)	For the purposes of determining the appropriate requirements in Section 5, ERCOT may require two or more separate generator interconnection requests to the same substation to follow the interconnection process applicable to the large generators, if, following the proposed change, those generators would have an aggregate nameplate capacity of ten MW or greater, and the projects are proposed by the same Entity or Affiliates.
(7)	For a new or modified generator that has been designated as a Self-Limiting Facility or as a component of a Self-Limiting Facility, the categorization of the generator as a small generator or large generator pursuant to paragraphs (3) through (5) above shall be determined using the Self-Limiting Facility’s established limit on the total MW Injection, or if applicable, the proposed increase in that value instead of the nameplate capacity of the Self-Limiting Facility.
5.2.2	Initiation of Generator Interconnection or Modification
(1)	Any Entity subject to paragraph (1) of Section 5.2.1, Applicability, must initiate a Generator Interconnection or Modification (GIM) by submitting a completed request and providing all requested information and documentation through the online Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) system and paying the Generation Interconnection Fee described in the ERCOT Fee Schedule in the ERCOT Protocols.  
(2)	An Entity is not eligible to initiate or maintain a GIM if the Entity or any other owner of the project meets any of the company ownership (including affiliations) or headquarters criteria listed in Texas Business and Commerce Code, Sections 113.002(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B) or 2274.0102(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B), added by Act of June 18, 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 975 (S.B. 2116).  Any Entity that seeks to initiate a GIM shall submit an attestation Section 8, Attachment D, Attestation Regarding Compliance with the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act, confirming that the Entity does not meet any of the company ownership (including affiliations) or headquarters criteria listed in Texas Business and Commerce Code, Sections 113.002(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B) or 2274.0102(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B).  
(3)	An Entity is not eligible to initiate or maintain a GIM if the real property to be utilized by or for the project is owned or controlled, in whole or in part, by an Entity that meets any of the prohibited company ownership (including affiliations) or headquarters criteria identified in the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act, Texas Business and Commerce Code, Sections 113.002(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B) or 2274.0102(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B), added by Act of June 18, 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 975 (S.B. 2116).  The Interconnecting Entity (IE) must provide an attestation Section 8, Attachment D, confirming that such prohibited ownership or control does not apply to the real property.
(4)	For the purposes of submitting a GIM:
(a)	MW values should be determined at the generator terminals;  
(b)	If generation is serving new or existing Load then this must be identified in the RIOO request; and
(c)	The latitude, longitude, and county are those of the station that includes the main power transformer for the subject facility.
(d)	Failure to supply any required data may delay ERCOT processing of the interconnection application and studies and result in project cancellation.  
(5)	Payment of the Generation Interconnection Fee and all other related fees payable to ERCOT must be made using an Automated Clearing House (ACH) e-check or credit card via the RIOO system.  This fee is non-refundable and must be paid even if ERCOT waives the Security Screening Study described in Section 5.3.1, Security Screening Study, or cancels the project due to failure to submit complete project information.  The fee must be paid for each additional interconnection request (INR) even if a fee has previously been paid for another INR associated with the same generator.
(6)	Upon receiving the application, ERCOT will assign the project a unique identification number (INR number) according to the following convention: 
	yrINRxxxx
	where:  yr is the year the generation is anticipated to be commissioned
	INR indicates it is an interconnection request
	xxxx is a sequence number beginning with 0001 (reset for each year) 

(7)	The proposed Commercial Operations Date for large generators meeting paragraph (1)(a) of Section 5.2.1 must be at least 15 months after the date the application is submitted or it will not be accepted.  If conditions allow, the Commercial Operations Date can be changed after submission. 
(8)	ERCOT will notify the IE within ten days if the GIM application fails to include the applicable fees or the information that is necessary for the GIM application to be approved. 
(9)	If the IE fails to respond to ERCOT’s inquiries within ten Business Days, the GIM application will be deemed incomplete and returned to the IE using the online RIOO system.  The IE will be notified that action is required via a RIOO system automated email.
(10)	Once the application has been deemed materially complete, ERCOT will notify the IE of receipt of the completed application within ten Business Days.
(11)	An ERCOT-designated point of contact will be assigned to oversee the interconnection study process and answer questions concerning the interconnection process.  Once assigned, the ERCOT-designated point of contact will contact the IE and will be the primary ERCOT contact for the IE.
(12)	Prior to the initial contact from the ERCOT-designated point of contact, an IE may direct questions concerning the GIM process to ResourceIntegrationDepartment@ercot.com.  All GIM-related email communication sent to the ERCOT-designated point of contact or to ResourceIntegrationDepartment@ercot.com shall include the associated project INR number in the subject field.  If the communication is not specific to a project, the email subject field shall have the words “Generator Interconnection or Modification.” 
(13)	If a proposed generator that would use the same physical interconnection is to be built in phases with in-service dates more than three months apart, each phase should be treated as a separate interconnection request but may be included in the same study.
5.2.3	Confidentiality
(1)	For any interconnection request involving a large generator, all data, documents or other information regarding the interconnection request, including the identity of the IE, will remain Protected Information until ERCOT receives written Notice from the IE that this information may be made public or until the IE requests a Full Interconnection Study (FIS).  The FIS agreement may contain confidential cost estimates; it will remain Protected Information and will not be released to parties other than those who are members of the confidential Transmission Owner Generation Interconnection list except as otherwise required by a court or by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction.  
(2)	For any interconnection request involving a small generator, all data, documents, or other information regarding the interconnection request, including the identity of the IE, will remain Protected Information until ERCOT receives written Notice from the IE that this information may be made public or until ERCOT approves the IE’s completed Resource Registration form for inclusion in the Network Operations Model, whichever occurs first.
(3)	Once the interconnection request is classified as a public project through one of these steps, ERCOT will make available the project description, the results of any economic analysis of Transmission Facilities needed to connect the generator costing over $25,000,000, and any information developed throughout the interconnection study process about transmission improvement projects that may be submitted for Regional Planning Group (RPG) review as a result of the new generation.
5.2.4	Duty to Update Project Information and Respond to ERCOT and TDSP Requests for Information
(1)	Each IE shall provide current and accurate Resource Registration information (including information describing the generator, the MPT, and any other generator-owned transmission or distribution facilities) and contact information to ERCOT and the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP), and shall promptly update that information as soon as possible, but no later than ten Business Days, following any change to that information.  All TDSPs will be sent notification when ERCOT reviews and acknowledges Registration information changes in the online RIOO system.  Interconnection studies that are based on outdated, false, or inaccurate data may adversely affect the safety and reliability of the ERCOT System and can result in damage to generation or transmission equipment.  Failure to provide accurate Resource Registration information and contact information may result in project delays or cancellation as described in Section 5.2.6, Project Cancellation Due to Failure to Comply with Requirements.  
(2)	Twice each year, each IE that has submitted an FIS request shall submit via the online RIOO system, for each proposed facility, the declaration in Section 8, Attachment A, Declaration of Resource Data Accuracy, stating that, as of the date of submission, the most recently submitted data on the current version of the Resource Registration form accurately reflects the anticipated characteristics of the proposed Resource and that the contact information is correct.  The declaration shall be executed by an officer or other person having authority to bind the company and shall be submitted via the online RIOO system.  Each IE shall submit one declaration for each project no earlier than March 1 and no later than March 15 each year, and shall submit another declaration for each proposed facility no earlier than September 1 and no later than September 15 each year.  Failure to submit a declaration may result in project cancellation as described in Section 5.2.6.  
(3)	If, after receipt of updated Resource Registration data, ERCOT, the interconnecting TDSP, or the lead Transmission Service Provider (TSP) determines that any subsequent changes to the project or to the transmission system or distribution system may affect the reliable operation of the ERCOT System or otherwise warrant new studies, then ERCOT or the TDSP may require additional studies to be performed before the proposed generator is allowed to interconnect to the ERCOT System.  The IE and TDSP(s) shall develop a schedule for completing the additional studies.  The TDSP shall provide the FIS studies, if applicable, to ERCOT and the other TDSPs via the online RIOO system.  
(4)	If the IE increases the requested amount of capacity of any proposed large generator by more than 20% of the amount requested in the initial application, the IE shall submit a new interconnection request for the additional capacity or for the entire project.  
(5)	Within ten Business Days, the IE shall notify ERCOT and the interconnecting TDSP, or, if applicable, lead TSP of any change in ownership and shall provide conclusive documentary evidence of the ownership change (such as a purchase/sale agreement or a document executed by both parties confirming the transaction) via the online RIOO system.  TDSPs will receive notification when ERCOT reviews and acknowledges the change.  The new owner shall acknowledge the sale by submitting the Resource Registrations data showing the contact information for the new owners within 60 days.  Failure to do so may result in project cancellation as described in Section 5.2.6.
(6)	An IE shall not transfer all or any portion of a project, including the real property to be utilized by the project, to an Entity that meets any of the prohibited company ownership (including affiliations) or headquarters criteria identified in the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act, Texas Business and Commerce Code, Sections 113.002(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B) or 2274.0102(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B), added by Act of June 18, 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 975 (S.B. 2116).  If the IE for a project changes, then the new IE shall execute and submit a new attestation in RIOO within ten Business Days of the change in ownership.  If the IE for a project relocates the IE’s headquarters, then the IE shall execute and submit a new attestation in RIOO within ten Business Days of the change in headquarters.  If an IE or the real property that will be utilized by or for the project meets any of the prohibited company ownership or affiliation criteria, the project will be subject to cancellation in the manner described in Section 5.2.6.  
(7)	To support ERCOT resource adequacy and North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) reliability assessment reporting requirements, the IE shall provide the following information via the online RIOO system as soon as possible, but in no event later than ten Business Days after the information is available or has been updated:
(a)	Revisions to the initial projected Commercial Operations Date and if available, the energization and Initial Synchronization dates;
(b)	Notification if any required air permits have been issued or permit applications have been withdrawn; 
(c)	Notification and dates for when generator construction has commenced or has been completed; and
(d)	A declaration of adequate water supplies (Section 8, Attachment B, Declaration of Adequate Water Supplies), unless the generator is powered by wind or PhotoVoltaic (PV) equipment or is a battery Energy Storage System (ESS).
(8)	If during the course of the GIM process, additional information is needed by ERCOT or the TDSP from the IE, the IE must respond to the request within ten Business Days.  The IE will be notified that action is required by its ERCOT contact.
5.2.5	Inactive Status
(1)	Any proposed large generator or proposed modification to a large generator subject to Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, shall be given the status of “Inactive” if it has not met the conditions for inclusion in the ERCOT planning models, as specified in Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, within two years of the date on which ERCOT posts the final FIS elements for the proposed generator to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.  
(2)	Any proposed small generator or proposed modification to a small generator subject to Section 5 shall be given the status of “Inactive” if it has not met the conditions for inclusion in the ERCOT Network Operations Model within six months of the date on which the interconnection request was initiated.  
(3)	An IE may also elect “Inactive” status for any proposed generator after the FIS has been requested.  For any interconnection-related study or process in progress when the IE elects “Inactive” status, the Entity conducting the study or performing the process may, at its own discretion, stop work on the study, not include the generator in the study, or discontinue any process related to this project.  
(4)	If a proposed small or large generator had met the requirements of Section 6.9 and is included in the planning models prior to electing a status change to “Inactive”, the proposed small or large generator shall be removed from the planning models during the next available planning model case build.
(5)	A proposed small or large generator whose IE has elected “Inactive” status may elect to change to “Planned” status if ERCOT determines that it still meets the requirements of Section 6.9 and not more than two years have elapsed since the date any one or more of the studies in the most recent FIS was posted to the MIS Secure Area.  If more than two years have elapsed, then the IE shall restart the FIS process for the project, unless ERCOT notifies the IE in writing that such studies are unnecessary. 
(6)	A proposed small or large generator that was given the status of “Inactive” because it had not met the conditions for inclusion in the ERCOT planning models shall be assigned the status of “Planned” and included in the ERCOT planning models if ERCOT determines that the generator meets the requirements of Section 6.9, and if not more than two years have elapsed since the date any one of more of the studies in the most recent FIS was posted to the MIS Secure Area.  If more than two years have elapsed since posting of the FIS, then the IE shall restart the FIS process for the project, unless ERCOT notifies the IE in writing that such studies are unnecessary. 
(7)	For any proposed small or large generator with the status of “Inactive”, the IE associated with the project shall not be required to submit the semiannual declaration or any other information that would otherwise be required under this Planning Guide and ERCOT shall exclude the Resource’s capacity from each monthly Generator Interconnection Status report that is issued while the IE is in “Inactive” status.  
(8)	If a transmission-connected project has been “Inactive” for five years, ERCOT may cancel the project pursuant to Section 5.2.6, Project Cancellation Due to Failure to Comply with Requirements.  At any time prior to cancellation of its project, an IE may submit a request to terminate the project’s “Inactive” status and return the project to “Planned” status if ERCOT determines that the IE has provided complete and updated project information. 
(9)	If a distribution-connected project has been “Inactive” for one year or the TDSP sends notification of a cancellation, ERCOT may cancel the project pursuant to Section 5.2.6.  At any time prior to cancellation of its project, an IE may submit a request to terminate the project’s “Inactive” status and return the project to “Planned” status if ERCOT determines that the IE has provided complete and updated project information.
5.2.6	Project Cancellation Due to Failure to Comply with Requirements
(1)	If at any time ERCOT determines that an IE with a project in “Planned” status has failed to meet any requirement of the ERCOT Protocols or this Planning Guide, including, without limitation, any requirement to provide materially accurate or complete information concerning any proposed small or large generator, ERCOT may send a notice of potential cancellation to the IE via email or through the online RIOO system.  The notice of potential cancellation shall describe the failure and provide notice of ERCOT’s intent to cancel the project if the failure is not remedied. 
(2)	Within 60 days of receiving ERCOT’s notification of potential cancellation, the IE shall correct the failure or provide information that explains to ERCOT’s satisfaction why the IE cannot reasonably comply with ERCOT requirements or why the failure to comply cannot reasonably be remedied.  
(3)	If the IE fails to respond to ERCOT’s notice of potential cancellation within 60 days, or if ERCOT determines that, notwithstanding the IE’s response, the IE has neither satisfactorily resolved the deficiency nor provided an explanation that, in ERCOT’s sole judgment, justifies the deficiency, ERCOT may cancel the IE’s project no sooner than 30 days after providing notice to the IE that the project will be canceled.  
(4)	If at any time before cancellation ERCOT determines that the IE did not fail to meet any requirement of the ERCOT Protocols or the Planning Guide or that any failure has been satisfactorily remedied, then ERCOT shall notify the IE that the concern has been resolved and the potential cancellation has been rescinded.  
(5)	At any time prior to cancellation, an IE may request a change in the status of the project to “Inactive” status as provided in Section 5.2.5, Inactive Status.
(6)	Once a project is canceled, it is permanently removed from the GIM process and must be resubmitted to be reconsidered for interconnection.

5.2.7	Voluntary Project Cancellation
(1)	An IE may cancel the GIM process at any time upon providing written notice of cancellation via the RIOO system.  The RIOO system will notify ERCOT and TDSPs of any cancellation.  Cancellation of the GIM process does not affect any obligation the IE may have previously incurred, including any obligation to render payment to the TSP for FIS studies.
5.2.8	Interconnection Agreements and Procedures
5.2.8.1	Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement for Transmission-Connected Generators
(1)	As a condition for obtaining transmission service, an IE for any transmission-connected generator must execute a Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA) with its TSP.  A template of the SGIA can be found on the ERCOT website.
(2)	The TSP must submit a change request via the online RIOO system to transmit a copy of the signed SGIA to ERCOT within ten Business Days of execution.
(3)	The TSP must submit a change request via the online RIOO system to transmit a copy of any public, financially-binding agreement between the IE and the TSP, other than an SGIA, under which the interconnection for a transmission-connected generator will be constructed.  The agreement must be submitted within ten Business Days of execution.
(4)	The TSP must submit a change request via the online RIOO system within ten Business Days of receiving both a notice to proceed with construction of the interconnection for the transmission-connected generator and the financial security sufficient to fund the interconnection facilities pursuant to either agreement addressed in paragraphs (2) or (3) above. 
[PGRR088:  Insert paragraph (5) below upon system implementation:] 
(5)	Within ten Business Days of providing the TSP both the notice to proceed with construction of the interconnection for the Generation Resource and the financial security sufficient to fund the interconnection facilities pursuant to the SGIA, the IE must submit a change request via the online RIOO system to provide the financial security amount if it is not redacted in the public version of the SGIA filed with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).  ERCOT will include in the monthly Generator Interconnection Status report the name of the interconnecting TSP and the total amount of financial security sufficient to fund the interconnection facilities, if provided by the IE.
5.2.8.2	Interconnection Agreement for Distribution-Connected Generators
(1)      	Each IE for a distribution-connected generator must provide ERCOT and the relevant TSP a copy of its fully executed applicable Distribution Service Provider (DSP) interconnection agreement, or a letter attesting that the interconnection agreement with the DSP has been executed, as a condition for interconnecting a proposed generation project at distribution voltage in ERCOT.
5.2.8.3	Provisions for Municipally Owned Utilities and Cooperatives
(1)	A Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or Electric Cooperative (EC) developing a proposed generator that will interconnect to its own system is not required to execute an interconnection agreement.  However, an MOU or EC must execute an SGIA or other appropriate interconnection agreement if its proposed generator would interconnect with another TDSP’s facilities.
(2)	A letter from a duly authorized official from the MOU or EC confirming the Entity’s intent to construct and operate the proposed generator and to interconnect such generator with its own transmission or distribution facilities will be deemed by ERCOT to be sufficient as a public commitment by the MOU or EC and will have the same impact as an interconnection agreement for all purposes.  The MOU or EC shall submit the letter to ERCOT via the online RIOO system.  
5.2.9	Self-Limiting Facilities
(1)	An IE may elect to designate any proposed new or modified Generation Resource or ESR as a component of a Self-Limiting Facility for the purposes of the GIM process.  Upon such designation, all studies and tests undertaken pursuant to this Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, or that may otherwise be required as a condition for interconnection shall use the Self-Limiting Facility’s proposed MW Injection limit as the maximum potential injection to the ERCOT System, and, if applicable, shall use the Self-Limiting Facility’s MW Withdrawal limit as the maximum potential withdrawal from the ERCOT System, notwithstanding the nameplate capacity values provided.  
(2)	Any Generation Resource or ESR that has been studied and tested in the GIM process as a component of a Self-Limiting Facility may not, at any time during or after this process, increase the MW Injection limit or MW Withdrawal limit of the Self-Limiting Facility beyond the value or values that were used in these studies and tests without re-initiating the GIM process to evaluate the impacts of the increased value or values.
[PGRR092:  Replace Section 5.2.9 above upon system implementation of NPRR1077:]
5.2.9	Self-Limiting Facilities
(1)	An IE may elect to designate any proposed new or modified Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG as a component of a Self-Limiting Facility for the purposes of the GIM process.  Upon such designation, all studies and tests undertaken pursuant to this Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, or that may otherwise be required as a condition for interconnection shall use the Self-Limiting Facility’s proposed MW Injection limit as the maximum potential injection to the ERCOT System, and, if applicable, shall use the Self-Limiting Facility’s MW Withdrawal limit as the maximum potential withdrawal from the ERCOT System, notwithstanding the nameplate capacity values provided.  
(2)	Any Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG that has been studied and tested in the GIM process as a component of a Self-Limiting Facility may not, at any time during or after this process, increase the MW Injection limit or MW Withdrawal limit of the Self-Limiting Facility beyond the value or values that were used in these studies and tests without re-initiating the GIM process to evaluate the impacts of the increased value or values.

5.3	Interconnection Study Procedures for Large Generators
(1)	The provisions in this Section establish the procedures for conducting the Security Screening Study and Full Interconnection Study (FIS) for each new or modified large generator, as that term is defined by paragraph (3) of Section 5.2.1, Applicability.
5.3.1	Security Screening Study
(1)	For each Generator Interconnection or Modification (GIM) submitted for a large generator, ERCOT will conduct a steady-state Security Screening Study, including power-flow and transfer studies, based on the expected in-service year to identify potential generation dispatch limitations based on the site proposed by the Interconnecting Entity (IE).  
(a)	The Security Screening Study is a high-level review of the project and generally includes a number of initial assumptions from both ERCOT and the IE.  In accordance with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.198, Initiating Transmission Service, ERCOT will establish the scope of the Security Screening Study that will include a determination of the need for a more in-depth Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) study.  The SSR vulnerability of all Generation Resources applicable under Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, will be assessed pursuant to Protocol Section 3.22.1.2, Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource Interconnection Assessment. 
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(a)	The Security Screening Study is a high-level review of the project and generally includes a number of initial assumptions from both ERCOT and the IE.  In accordance with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.198, Initiating Transmission Service, ERCOT will establish the scope of the Security Screening Study that will include a determination of the need for a more in-depth Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) study.  The SSR vulnerability of all Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) applicable under Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, will be assessed pursuant to Protocol Section 3.22.1.2, Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource Interconnection Assessment. 
(b)	At its sole discretion, ERCOT may waive the requirement for a Security Screening Study for a GIM.
(2)	The results of the Security Screening Study will provide an indication of the level at which the proposed generator can expect to operate simultaneously with other known generators in the area before significant transmission additions or enhancements may be required.  During the course of the Security Screening Study, ERCOT may consult with the affected Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)), if needed, to identify the most efficient means of providing transmission service.
(3)	During the Security Screening Study phase of the GIM process, and in accordance with the Protocols, all data, documents, and other information required by ERCOT from an IE related to a request for interconnection are considered Protected Information pursuant to Protocol Section 1.3.1.1, Items Considered Protected Information, to the extent that such information is not otherwise publicly available.  Accordingly, ERCOT shall not publicly release any of the protected data, documents, or other information during the Security Screening Study phase except to TSPs.  Information about interconnection requests in the Security Screening Study phase will only be released publicly in aggregated amounts.
(4)	Upon completion of the Security Screening Study, ERCOT will present the IE with a preliminary report that will inform the IE about the suitability of the proposed Point of Interconnection (POI) for the proposed MW amount.  This report does not imply any commitment by ERCOT or any TSP to recommend or construct transmission additions or enhancements.  The report will also contain a description of the SSR assessment performed as part of the Security Screening Study and any conclusions resulting from the SSR assessment.
(5)	Within 180 days of the date ERCOT notifies the IE of the Security Screening Study results, the IE must notify ERCOT, via the online Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) system, of its desire to pursue an FIS, otherwise ERCOT shall consider the GIM withdrawn by the IE.  ERCOT will begin initiation and coordination of the FIS only after receiving this Notification and all required items from the IE for the FIS application to be approved.  TSPs will receive a RIOO system automated email when ERCOT determines the FIS application is complete. 
(6)	After the expiration of the 180-day period, an IE must submit a new GIM for a Security Screening Study and must again pay the appropriate fee.  The IE will also be required to submit any updates or changes in the project’s data to ERCOT.
(7)	For any interconnection request that proposes either a large generator that would be interconnected at distribution voltage or a qualifying modification to a large generator that is interconnected at distribution voltage, ERCOT will not initiate a Security Screening Study or propose any FIS kickoff meeting until the IE first provides written confirmation from the affected Distribution Service Provider (DSP) stating that the DSP has evaluated the proposed project, determined that the interconnection of the generator at distribution voltage is electrically feasible, and identified the necessary upgrades to accommodate the proposed interconnection.  In conducting a Security Screening Study for such an interconnection request, ERCOT shall evaluate only the transmission-level impacts, if any, of the proposed generator, and the affected DSP shall provide ERCOT any information concerning the DSP’s facilities or the proposed generator interconnection as may be requested by ERCOT for the purpose of completing the Security Screening Study.
5.3.2	Full Interconnection Study
(1)	An FIS consists of the set of steady-state, stability, short-circuit, facility, and/or other relevant studies that are necessary to determine the reliability impact of a large generator on affected Transmission Facilities and identify the Transmission Facilities that are needed to reliably interconnect the new or modified generator to the ERCOT System.  The FIS is not intended to determine the deliverability of power from the proposed Generation Resource to market or to ensure that the proposed Generation Resource does not experience any congestion-related curtailment.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(1)	An FIS consists of the set of steady-state, stability, short-circuit, facility, and/or other relevant studies that are necessary to determine the reliability impact of a large generator on affected Transmission Facilities and identify the Transmission Facilities that are needed to reliably interconnect the new or modified generator to the ERCOT System.  The FIS is not intended to determine the deliverability of power from the proposed Generation Resource or ESR to market or to ensure that the proposed Generation Resource or ESR does not experience any congestion-related curtailment.
(2)	For an interconnection request involving a large generator interconnecting at distribution voltage, the FIS shall evaluate only the transmission-level impacts, if any, of the proposed generator, and the affected DSP shall provide the lead TSP all information concerning the DSP’s facilities or the proposed generator interconnection as may be requested by the TSP for the purpose of completing any one or more FIS studies.  
(3)	To initiate an FIS, the IE must submit each of the following via the online RIOO system:
(a)	A request to proceed with the FIS via the online RIOO system;
(b)	Complete Resource Registration data in the format prescribed by ERCOT with applicable information required for interconnection studies identified in the Resource Registration Glossary for the applicable Resource type.  This information includes, among other things, the appropriate dynamic model for the proposed generator and results of the model quality tests and associated simulation files as described in paragraph (5)(c) of Section 6.2, Dynamics Model Development, subject to performance and usability verification by the lead TSP with approval from ERCOT through the FIS process.  Dynamic model data shall be provided using the appropriate dynamic model template.  Paragraph (5) of Section 6.2 and the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual contain more detail and IE dynamics data requirements.  Data submitted for transient stability models shall be compatible with the current version of the planning and operations model software as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.  If no compatible model exists, the IE shall work with a consultant or software vendor to develop and supply accurate/appropriate models along with other associated data.  These models shall be incorporated into the standard model libraries of all software packages;
(c)	An FIS Application Fee as described in the ERCOT Fee Schedule in the ERCOT Nodal Protocols, with the MW amount determined based on: 
(i)	The MW of additional installed capacity for GIMs not meeting paragraph (1)(c)(ii) of Section 5.2.1, Applicability; or
(ii)	Total MW capacity for GIMs meeting paragraph (1)(c)(ii) of Section 5.2.1; 
(d)	Proof of site control as described in Section 5.3.2.1, Proof of Site Control; and
(e)	A declaration in Section 8, Attachment C, Declaration of Department of Defense Notification, certifying that:  
(i)	The IE has notified the Department of Defense (DOD) Siting Clearinghouse of the proposed Generation Resource and requested an informal or formal review as described in 32 C.F.R. § 211.1; or 
(ii)	The IE’s proposed Generation Resource is not required to provide notice to the DOD and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) because the project does not meet the criteria requiring notice to the FAA under 14 C.F.R. § 77.9.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(e)	A declaration in Section 8, Attachment C, Declaration of Department of Defense Notification, certifying that:  
(i)	The IE has notified the Department of Defense (DOD) Siting Clearinghouse of the proposed Generation Resource or ESR and requested an informal or formal review as described in 32 C.F.R. § 211.1; or 
(ii)	The IE’s proposed Generation Resource or ESR is not required to provide notice to the DOD and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) because the project does not meet the criteria requiring notice to the FAA under 14 C.F.R. § 77.9.
(4)	The IE can request an FIS for an active project before completion of the Security Screening Study or at any other time after ERCOT deems the initial GIM application complete, but must comply with the timeline set forth in paragraph (5) of Section 5.3.1, Security Screening Study.  Requesting both studies at the same time may shorten the overall time to complete the GIM process due to overlap of work on both studies.
(5)	Payment of the ERCOT FIS Application Fee does not affect the IE’s independent responsibility to pay for FIS studies conducted by the TSP or for any DSP studies.
(6)	ERCOT shall manage a confidential email list (Transmission Owner Generation Interconnection) to facilitate communication of confidential GIM-related information among TSP(s) and ERCOT.  Membership to this email list will be limited to ERCOT and appropriate TSP personnel. 
(7)       If any of the items required for the FIS request pursuant to paragraph (3) above are deemed not acceptable by ERCOT or are not submitted, then the IE must submit any omitted items and resolve and resubmit any deficient items.  If the FIS request is not deemed complete by ERCOT within 60 days of submission of the FIS request, the FIS will be considered to have not been requested for the purpose of meeting paragraph (5) of Section 5.3.1.  If the 180-day limit specified in paragraph (5) of Section 5.3.1 has expired, the GIM will be cancelled immediately.  If the 180-day limit has not expired and the deficiency is not resolved before the 180-day limit, the GIM will be cancelled upon expiration of the 180-day limit.
5.3.2.1	Proof of Site Control
(1)	To establish proof of site control for the purposes of paragraph (3)(d) of Section 5.3.2, Full Interconnection Study, the IE must demonstrate through an affiliated company, through a trustee, or directly in its name that:
(a)	The IE is the owner in fee simple of the real property to be utilized by the facilities for which any new generation interconnection is sought;
(b)	The IE holds a valid written leasehold interest in the real property to be utilized by the facilities for which new generation interconnection is sought;
(c)	The IE holds a valid written option to purchase or obtain a leasehold interest in the real property to be utilized by the facilities for which new generation interconnection is sought; or
(d)	The IE holds a duly executed written contract to purchase or obtain a leasehold interest in the real property to be utilized by the facilities for which new generation interconnection is sought.
(2)	The IE must notify ERCOT of any substantive change in status of the arrangement used to demonstrate site control.
(3)	If the IE fails to maintain site control at any point before the date the generator is fully constructed, ERCOT will consider the interconnection request withdrawn as of the date of the loss of site control unless the applicant can show within 30 days that it has re-established site control or has established control of a new site that would not result in any material modification of any interconnection study requested under the current application.
5.3.2.2	Full Interconnection Study Scoping Process
(1)	Within ten Business Days of the IE’s submission of the items required by paragraph (3) of Section 5.3.2, Full Interconnection Study, ERCOT will designate a TSP to lead the FIS and will contact that TSP to schedule an FIS kickoff meeting.  ERCOT will select the lead TSP based upon a preliminary analysis of the most likely POI, or for a distribution-connected project, the most likely transmission substation for the proposed interconnection.  If an IE has previously developed a generation project in ERCOT with the selected TSP, the IE, ERCOT, and the TSP may agree to forgo the kickoff meeting.  If they so agree, the timeline for the IE and TSP to reach agreement on the FIS scope will start on the date ERCOT notifies the TSP of the IE’s decision to proceed with the FIS.
(2)	ERCOT will notify all other TSP(s) of the FIS request via the online RIOO system.  It is the responsibility of each TSP to determine if the proposed project would have a material impact on its Transmission Facilities and to decide whether and to what extent it should participate in the FIS.  The assistance of more than one TSP may be required in areas where Transmission Facilities are provided by multiple TSPs.  In these cases it may be necessary for the IE to execute study agreements with multiple TSPs.  
(3)	Each TSP desiring to participate in the FIS shall promptly notify the lead TSP via email.  The lead TSP must include all interested TSPs in the FIS to the extent such involvement is reasonable.
(4)	At the FIS kickoff meeting, the IE will present the proposed project and ERCOT will review the results of the Security Screening Study.  The lead TSP will facilitate a general discussion of the preliminary study scope of work for the FIS.
(5)	Any SSR studies required under Protocol Section 3.22.1.2, Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource Interconnection Assessment, shall be scoped at the same time as the FIS but do not need to be included as part of the FIS. 
(6)	Following the kickoff meeting, the IE and the TSP(s) must agree to the terms of the FIS study as a condition for proceeding with the FIS studies.  The FIS study agreement must include all assumptions, timetables, study costs, and payment schedules, and the determination of all requirements for interconnection.  The IE and TSP(s) may divide the FIS into distinct study phases, each requiring IE approval to proceed.  All payments for the FIS studies shall be remitted directly to the TSP(s) completing the studies.  
(a)	The FIS must include all study elements required by Section 5.3.2.4, Full Interconnection Study Elements, unless ERCOT and the TSP(s) determine that one or more studies should not be performed.  ERCOT and the TSP(s) shall consider the Security Screening Study and any information provided by the IE when developing the FIS scope. 
(b)	The requirement for one or more of the FIS study elements identified in Section 5.3.2.4 may be waived for projects involving any distribution-connected generator or any project meeting paragraph (1)(c)(ii) of Section 5.2.1, Applicability, if mutually agreed upon by ERCOT and the TSP(s).  In order to aid in the determination of whether or not FIS study waivers are appropriate, ERCOT and the TSP(s) may request additional data and information from the IE beyond what is required by Section 5.2.2, Initiation of Generator Interconnection or Modification, Section 5.3.2, and Section 5.5, Generator Commissioning and Continuing Operations.
(7)	The TSP(s) shall submit the FIS study agreement via the online RIOO system.  The online RIOO system will provide notification via an email to ERCOT and other TSP(s) of availability of the FIS study agreement for review and comment.  Comments must be made within ten Business Days.
(8)	If the IE and TSP(s) cannot agree to the terms of the FIS study within 60 days, ERCOT will attempt to mediate an agreement.  If mediation is unsuccessful, ERCOT will cancel the interconnection request if the IE does not agree to the proposed terms within ten days of being notified that the mediation was unsuccessful.
(9)	The TSP shall notify ERCOT by submitting a change request via the online RIOO system within ten Business Days of the following events:
(a)	Signing of the FIS study agreement; and 
(b)	Funding of the FIS study agreement.
5.3.2.3	Full Interconnection Study Description and Methodology
(1)	The FIS consists of a series of distinct study elements.  The specific elements that will be included in a particular FIS will be stated in the FIS agreement, and not all of the study elements specified below must be included if the IE and the TSP agree that one or more studies are unnecessary.  The primary purpose of the FIS is to determine the most effective and efficient manner in which to achieve the proposed project while continuing to maintain the reliability of the ERCOT System by ensuring compliance with all North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, Protocols, this Planning Guide and the Operating Guides.  The scenarios and base cases being used for these studies to determine potential transmission limitations will be documented in the FIS study scope.
(2)	Each proposed generator that requires a separate physical transmission interconnection will be treated as an individual study to be analyzed separately from all other such requests unless otherwise agreed by the IE and TSP(s) in the interconnection study agreement.
(3)	The FIS process includes developing and analyzing various computer model simulations of the existing and proposed ERCOT generation/transmission system.  The results from these simulations will be utilized by the TSP(s) to determine the impact of the proposed interconnection.
(4)	The TSP(s) will examine normal transmission operations as well as potentially adverse, or contingency, conditions in order to identify and analyze the reliability and effectiveness of various interconnection design alternatives in alleviating or mitigating any undesirable performance of the interconnection under a variety of operating conditions.  The study should include analysis demonstrating the adequate reliability of any temporary interconnection configurations.
(5)	In comparing interconnection alternatives, the TSP(s) will consider such information as interconnection cost and construction schedule, impact to short- and long-range reliability, operational flexibility, and compatibility with future transmission plans.  The TSP(s) may consider interconnection alternatives not suggested by the IE.
(6)	The TSP(s) may update the final FIS report to reflect changes to the ERCOT System (i.e., new Standard Generation Interconnection Agreements (SGIAs)) after the report is completed and before the SGIA is executed.
5.3.2.4	Full Interconnection Study Elements
5.3.2.4.1	Steady-State Analysis
(1)	The steady-state interconnection study base case shall be created from the most recently approved Steady State Working Group (SSWG) base case.  TSP(s) or ERCOT may remove any future (currently nonexistent) facility from the steady-state interconnection study base case if either determines that the facility may significantly affect the interconnection study results and the facility has not already undergone appropriate review by the Regional Planning Group (RPG).  In addition, ERCOT and TSP(s) may include other publicly disclosed projects in the steady-state interconnection study base case.  ERCOT may request a list of the interconnection requests included in the FIS by the TSP(s).  Modifications to the SSWG base case, necessary to evaluate the study results, shall be documented in the FIS but not to the extent that documenting the modifications would reveal Protected Information.
(2)	The TSP(s) shall perform contingency analyses as required by the NERC Reliability Standards, Protocols, this Planning Guide and the Operating Guides and identify any additional facilities that may be necessary to ensure that expected system performance conforms to these standards.  The study shall identify any system limitations that would prevent the generator from achieving full output.
(3)	Loss-of-generation analyses shall assume that the lost generation will be replaced from all remaining Generation Resources in proportion to their nominal capacity (i.e., inertial response), and shall consider the generation limit of each Generation Resource.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(3)	Loss-of-generation analyses shall assume that the lost generation will be replaced from all remaining Generation Resources and/or ESRs in proportion to their nominal capacity (i.e., inertial response and primary frequency response), and shall consider the generation limit of each Generation Resource and ESR.
(4)	The lead TSP is responsible for completing an analysis of any contingency events or Outages that could result in a violation of the NERC Reliability Standards, Protocols, this Planning Guide and the Operating Guides, regardless of which TSP owns the facilities involved.  The results of this analysis will be shared with TSP(s) that have facilities involved in planning criteria violations and those affected TSP(s) will be responsible for evaluating the validity of the anticipated violations.
5.3.2.4.2	System Protection (Short-Circuit) Analysis
(1)	The FIS agreement will specify locations where available short-circuit fault duty will be identified, calculated, and documented.
(2)	If any of the required transmission system facilities identified in the FIS facility study associated with the GIM result in violations of the TSP’s short circuit criteria, the TSP shall plan and provide facilities to address such violations.  The TSP will determine the maximum available fault currents at the interconnection substation for determining switching device interrupting capabilities and protective relay settings.
5.3.2.4.3	Dynamic and Transient Stability (Unit Stability, Voltage) Analysis
(1)	At the discretion of the lead TSP or ERCOT, the lead TSP will perform transient stability studies if necessary to meet NERC Reliability Standards, Protocols, this Planning Guide or the Operating Guides applicable to the generator or to the ERCOT System.  If the lead TSP conducting a stability study decides such study is not required, the lead TSP shall provide a written justification in lieu of the study report.  
(2)	When performing such studies, all operational and planned generators which have met the requirements of Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, in the area of the study shall be dispatched at full net output in at least one of the scenarios/cases evaluated by the lead TSP.  The dispatch level may be reduced to respect any published stability limits or to reach a power flow solution.  If any Generation Resources in the study area are not dispatched at full output, the study report shall include the technical rationale.  Any resulting increase in generation will be balanced as addressed in the FIS agreement.
(3)	Stability study base cases shall be formed from the latest available approved SSWG base cases consistent with the most recently approved Dynamics Working Group (DWG) stability data base.  The initial transmission configuration in the area of study included in a stability study base case shall be identical to that used in the steady-state studies of the same period.  Any previously identified transmission improvements that will not be in service prior to the Initial Synchronization of the proposed generator shall not be included in the stability study base case.
(4)	Transient stability studies will analyze the performance of the proposed generator and the ERCOT System in terms of angular stability, voltage stability and excessive frequency excursions.  Additional studies may include small signal stability or critical clearing time analyses where the number of cycles for which a transmission line can sustain a fault without causing loss of synchronism of any of the Resource is compared to the response of the protection systems.  Such studies should incorporate reasonable and conservative assumptions regarding plant operating conditions.  Proposed analyses shall be identified and defined in the FIS agreement. 
(5)	All stability studies shall be performed in accordance with NERC Reliability Standards, Protocols, this Planning Guide and the Operating Guides.  The stability study portion of the FIS shall document any instability identified through performance of the study. 
(6)	If the TSP identifies instability (other than instability identified for extreme events) in the stability portion of the FIS, the following steps will be taken after the FIS is deemed complete and posted to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area in accordance with Section 5.3.2.5, FIS Report and Follow-up:
(a)	The IE and TSP shall investigate alternative solutions to resolve the instability through changes to the proposed generator and report their findings to ERCOT.  If changes to the generator are determined by ERCOT to be feasible, the IE shall implement the changes prior to Initial Synchronization.  
(b)	If ERCOT determines that changes to the proposed generator are not feasible to resolve the identified instability, ERCOT shall notify the TSP and IE, and the TSP shall investigate a transmission improvement to resolve the instability and report its findings to ERCOT. 
(c)	If ERCOT determines that a proposed transmission improvement is feasible to resolve the identified instability, the TSP shall proceed with implementing the transmission improvement, in accordance with Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, identified in paragraph (6)(b) above after the requirements of Section 6.9 have been met for the proposed generator.
(d)	If the transmission improvement identified in paragraph (6)(b) or (c) above cannot be implemented prior to Initial Synchronization, ERCOT shall determine the appropriate operating limit, including evaluating the feasibility of a proposed Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) that may mitigate the limit when a market solution is not available, in accordance with Section 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment, prior to Initial Synchronization.
5.3.2.4.4	Facility Study
(1)	The facility study provides complete details of the transmission and substation facilities needed to connect a generator to a new or existing substation on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  These details include conceptual design descriptions, construction milestones, and cost estimates.  A facility study is not required for a large generator interconnecting directly to a DSP’s distribution facilities unless transmission facilities are required to be constructed.
(2)	In conducting the facility study, if the lead TSP determines that the costs of the Transmission Facilities needed to connect the proposed generator are expected to exceed $25,000,000, the lead TSP will submit a change request via the online RIOO system to communicate this finding to ERCOT and other TSP(s) within ten Business Days of such determination.  This communication will include all available information upon which that finding is based, including but not limited to:
(a)	A description of the Transmission Facilities needed to connect the proposed generator;
(b)	Information necessary to modify a power-flow case to include those facilities;
(c)	Any information obtained from the IE that would be helpful in modeling the proposed generator for the study; and
(d)	The estimated cost of the facilities. 
(3)	The lead TSP will notify the RPG email list via email within ten Business Days following the later of the completion of the facility study or the signing of an SGIA when the cost of the Transmission Facilities needed to connect the generator is expected to be greater than $25,000,000.
5.3.2.5	FIS Report and Follow-up
(1)	The TSP(s) will submit to ERCOT and to the other TSP(s) via the online RIOO system a preliminary report of findings and recommendations for each of the FIS elements.
(2)	Any questions, comments, proposed revisions, or clarifications by any party shall be made in writing to the TSP(s) within ten Business Days after the issuance of each study report, which may cover one or more study elements.  ERCOT can extend this review period by an additional 20 Business Days and an email will be sent to notify the affected TSP(s) and the IE that it needs additional time to review the report.
(3)	After considering the information received from ERCOT and other TSPs, the study element(s) report will be deemed complete and a final report shall be provided, via the online RIOO system, to ERCOT and all TSPs.  The TSP(s) conducting the FIS shall submit via the online RIOO system, the SSR analysis, if required, as a separate document from the remainder of the report.
(4)	Each final study element report will be available via the online RIOO system after the report has been deemed complete and marked “final” and will be posted to the MIS Secure Area within ten Business Days.  Coincident with posting of the final FIS study element reports to the MIS Secure Area, ERCOT will notify the TSP and the IE when each study element report is posted.  The TSP shall provide a copy of each final report to the IE upon request.   
(5)	The study element(s) report shall not contain sensitive information including, but not limited to, confidential plant design information including stability study model data and parameters and contingencies causing instability.  The TSP(s) shall provide this information to ERCOT and other TSP(s) upon request.
(6)	The TSP issuing the final FIS element(s) report shall indicate that the report is the final report required by the FIS.  At the end of the ten Business Day review period following the issuance of the final FIS element(s) report, the FIS will be deemed complete and the IE and TSP may execute an SGIA.
(7)	The final FIS element(s) report shall be deemed complete and marked “final” via the online RIOO system at least 45 days prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline defined in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment.
(8)	Should the IE wish to proceed with any proposed transmission-connected project, the IE must execute a new or amended SGIA with the appropriate TSP within 180 days following the completion of the FIS (includes all major study element(s) reports).  Failure to do so may result in a cancellation as described in Section 5.2.6, Project Cancellation Due to Failure to Comply with Requirements.
(9)	During the time after the FIS is completed and before Initial Synchronization, the IE shall notify both ERCOT and the lead TSP(s) of any changes to the assumptions used for the FIS along with a detailed written explanation of why the changes were made.  If the changes substantially differ from the assumptions used for the FIS, ERCOT and the TSP(s) shall determine the impact of the changes on the results of the FIS and, if applicable, SSR studies.  If the changes are determined by ERCOT and lead TSP(s) to have the potential to materially alter the conclusions documented in the FIS, the lead TSP(s) will make appropriate modifications to one or more FIS study elements.  The updated FIS reports will be submitted via the online RIOO system.  Any questions, comments, proposed revisions, or clarifications by any party shall be made in writing to the TSP(s) within ten Business Days after the issuance of an updated study report.  Initial Synchronization of the generator may be delayed pending completion of these modifications to the FIS.
5.3.3	ERCOT Economic Study
(1)	In accordance with paragraph (2) of Protocol Section 3.11.6, Generation Interconnection Process, ERCOT shall perform an independent economic analysis of the Transmission Facilities needed to connect a generator to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, including any new substation that may be needed, and that are expected to cost more than $25,000,000.  This economic analysis is performed only for informational purposes, and no ERCOT endorsement will be provided.   
(2)	The IE shall provide to ERCOT any requested information necessary to accurately represent the generator in the economic study.
(3)	ERCOT will endeavor to complete this economic study within 90 days, and will inform the TSP(s) and IE if additional time is required.  ERCOT will provide the results of the economic study to the IE and to the TSP(s) via the online RIOO system.
5.3.4	Reactive Study
(1)	The IE and the TSP shall coordinate with one another for the IE to complete the reactive study and for the TSP to have the needed data to start the FIS stability study.
(a)	The TSP shall send the preliminary short circuit current for the proposed POI based on the most recent System Protection Working Group (SPWG) base case to the IE within 15 Business Days of an IE request after the FIS study agreement has been signed.
(b)	The IE shall complete a preliminary reactive study to determine the reactive devices that will be needed to meet ERCOT requirements.  Once determined, the IE shall add the reactive devices, if any, to the Resource Registration data and make the updated data available to ERCOT and the TSP via the online RIOO system.
(c)	The TSP shall start the FIS stability study after all the required data is available via the online RIOO system.
(2)	Once the TSP has completed the FIS short circuit study and it is approved by ERCOT and posted to the MIS Secure Area, the IE shall complete and submit the final reactive study via the online RIOO system.
[PGRR076:  Insert paragraph (3) below upon system implementation:]
(3)	For GINR projects attempting to meet the next quarterly stability assessment deadline, pursuant to Section 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment, ERCOT shall approve or comment on the final reactive study according to the following timeline:
(a)	Within 15 days if submitted at least 45 days before the quarterly stability assessment deadline.  Resubmissions submitted 30 days or more before the quarterly stability assessment deadline will be reviewed and returned within ten days;
(b)	On the day of the quarterly stability assessment deadline if submitted 30 to 44 days prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline; or
(c)	Without guarantee that it will be reviewed prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline if submitted less than 30 days prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline.

5.3.5	ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct a stability assessment every three months to assess the impact of planned large generators connecting to the ERCOT System.  The assessment shall derive the conditions to be studied with consideration given to the results of the FIS stability studies for large generators, with planned Initial Synchronization in the period under study.  ERCOT may study conditions other than those identified in the FIS stability studies.  
(2)	Large generators that are not included in the assessment as described in this Section as result of the IE failing to meet the prerequisites by the deadlines as listed in the table below will not be eligible for Initial Synchronization during that three-month period.  The timeline for the quarterly stability assessment shall be in accordance with the following table:
Generator Initial Synchronization Date	Last Day for an IE to meet prerequisites as listed in paragraph (4) below	Completion of Quarterly Stability Assessment
Upcoming January, February, March	Prior August 1	End of October
Upcoming April, May, June	Prior November 1	End of January
Upcoming July, August, September	Prior February 1	End of April
Upcoming October, November, December	Prior May 1	End of July
(3)	If the last day for an IE to meet prerequisites or if completion of the quarterly stability assessment as shown in the above table falls on a weekend or holiday, the deadline will extend to the next Business Day.
(4)	The following prerequisites shall be satisfied prior to a large generator being included in the quarterly stability assessment:
(a)	The generator has met the requirements of Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models. 
(b)	The IE has provided all generator data in accordance with the Resource Registration Glossary, Planning Model column, including but not limited to steady state, system protection and stability models.
(i)	The IE shall submit the final dynamic data model at least 45 days prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline described in paragraph (2) above.  If ERCOT is unable to complete its review prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline, ERCOT shall not include the Generation Resource or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) in that quarterly stability assessment.
(ii)	Changes to the dynamic data model after the stability study is deemed complete may subject the Generation Resource or SOG to modification of one or more FIS study elements as defined in paragraph (9) of Section 5.3.2.5, FIS Report and Follow-up.  If ERCOT and the lead TSP(s) determine that modifications to one or more FIS study elements are required, then ERCOT shall not include the Generation Resource or SOG in a quarterly stability assessment until the revised FIS has been completed in accordance with paragraph (4)(c)(i) below.
(iii)	If an IE submitted a final dynamic data model at least 45 days prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline but ERCOT determines that the Generation Resource or SOG is ineligible to be included in a quarterly stability assessment pursuant to paragraphs (4)(b)(i) or (4)(b)(ii) above, ERCOT will send a notification to the IE. 
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(b)	The IE has provided all generator data in accordance with the Resource Registration Glossary, Planning Model column, including but not limited to steady state, system protection and stability models.
(i)	The IE shall submit the final dynamic data model at least 45 days prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline described in paragraph (2) above.  If ERCOT is unable to complete its review prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline, ERCOT shall not include the Generation Resource, ESR or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) in that quarterly stability assessment.
(ii)	Changes to the dynamic data model after the stability study is deemed complete may subject the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG to modification of one or more FIS study elements as defined in paragraph (9) of Section 5.3.2.5, FIS Report and Follow-up.  If ERCOT and the lead TSP(s) determine that modifications to one or more FIS study elements are required, then ERCOT shall not include the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG in a quarterly stability assessment until the revised FIS has been completed in accordance with paragraph (4)(c)(i) below.
(iii)	If an IE submitted a final dynamic data model at least 45 days prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline but ERCOT determines that the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG is ineligible to be included in a quarterly stability assessment pursuant to paragraphs (4)(b)(i) or (4)(b)(ii) above, ERCOT will send a notification to the IE. 
(c)	The following elements must be complete:
(i)	Final FIS studies, which the TSP must have submitted via the online RIOO system at least 45 days prior to the quarterly stability assessment deadline;
(ii)	Reactive Power Study; and
(iii)	System improvements or mitigation plans that were identified in these studies as required to meet the operational standards established in the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guides, and Other Binding Documents prior to synchronizing the generator.
(d)	The data used in the studies identified in paragraph (4)(c) above is consistent with data submitted by the IE as required by Section 6.9. 
(5)	At any time following the inclusion of a large generator in a stability assessment, but before the Initial Synchronization of the generator, if ERCOT determines, in its sole discretion, that the generator no longer meets the prerequisites described in paragraph (4), or that an IE has made a change to the design of the generator that could have a material impact on ERCOT System stability, then ERCOT may refuse to allow Initial Synchronization of the generator, provided that ERCOT shall include the generator in the next quarterly stability assessment period that commences after identification of the material change or after the generator meets the prerequisites specified in paragraph (4), as applicable.  If ERCOT determines, in its sole discretion, that the change to the design of the generator would not have a material impact on ERCOT System stability, then ERCOT may not refuse to allow Initial Synchronization of the generator due to this change.
(6)	ERCOT shall post to the MIS Secure Area a report summarizing the results of the quarterly stability assessment within ten Business Days of completion.
5.4	Interconnection Procedures for Small Generators
5.4.1	Small Generator Review Meetings
(1)	Upon request by an Interconnecting Entity (IE), ERCOT, the Transmission Service Provider (TSP), and if applicable, the Distribution Service Provider (DSP) will have an initial meeting with the IE to discuss the small generator interconnection process and address general information related to the project.
5.4.2	Submission of Interconnection Agreement and TSP and/or DSP Studies and Technical Requirements
(1)	As a condition for ERCOT’s acceptance of the Resource Registration form for an interconnection request involving a small generator other than a Settlement Only Generator (SOG), the following conditions must be met:
(a)	The IE must submit a copy of a fully executed interconnection agreement or letter, as required per Section 5.2.8, Interconnection Agreements and Procedures.
(b)	The Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) to which the generator is proposed to interconnect, or in the case of a modification described in paragraph (1)(c) of Section 5.2.1, Applicability, the TDSP to which the generator currently connects, must provide written confirmation via email to ERCOT stating that all interconnection studies required by the TDSP have been completed, and indicating whether any operational limitations, including ramping limitations, maximum output limitations, or other restrictions, are expected to affect the generator’s operation.  If the TDSP identifies operational limitations, the TDSP must describe those limitations. 
(c)	The TDSP must provide the following information to ERCOT:
(i)	Confirmation that the IE has provided financial security sufficient to fund the distribution system upgrades identified by the TDSP; 
(ii)	The timeline for those upgrades; and 
(iii)	Any operational limitation on the generator’s operation in the interim.
5.4.3	Reviews and Approval to Submit Model Information
(1)	ERCOT shall review submitted interconnection agreements, TSP and DSP study results, and generator technical specifications. 
(2)	ERCOT shall communicate within ten Business Days the need for clarification or additional information.  ERCOT shall provide a reason for rejecting any information.
(3)	The IE shall have ten Business Days to submit clarifications or additional information in response to an ERCOT request.
(4)	If the IE does not respond within ten Business Days, ERCOT may place the project in “Inactive” status.  Once the IE provides the information, ERCOT may place the project in “Planned” status and ERCOT shall have ten Business Days for reviews.
(5)	Once the IE has provided all required agreements, studies, and technical specifications and ERCOT reviews have been completed, the approval to submit model information will be granted and the project will be included in ERCOT systems.
5.4.4	Transmission System Reliability Impact
(1)	ERCOT may delay the synchronization, testing, or commissioning of any generator to the extent it deems necessary to study transmission system impacts of this generator and any other proposed or existing generators.  If, as a result of this study or any previous study, ERCOT determines that the generator would create or contribute to a reliability concern, ERCOT may prohibit the synchronization, testing, or commissioning of the generator until the reliability concern is addressed.   
5.5	Generator Commissioning and Continuing Operations
(1)	For each interconnecting Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR), each Interconnecting Entity (IE) shall meet the conditions established by ERCOT before proceeding to Initial Energization, Initial Synchronization, and commercial operations.  These conditions may require proof of meeting applicable ERCOT requirements, which may include, but are not limited to, reactive capability, voltage ride-through standards, dynamic model template submission, Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR), Primary Frequency Response, Power System Stabilizer (PSS), Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) models, and telemetry.
(2)	Before ERCOT approves Initial Energization for a project that will consume Load other than Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) and that is not behind a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) tie meter:
(a)	The Resource Entity must request an Electric Service Identifier(s) (ESI ID(s)) from the Distribution Service Provider(s) (DSP(s)) that will be serving the Load at the Resource site and provide the ESI ID(s) to ERCOT, as described in paragraph (2) of Protocol Section 10.3.2, ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters; and 

(b)	These ESI ID(s) must be established in the ERCOT Settlement system in a state that allows for the Load to be properly settled to the appropriate Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE). 
(3)	Within 300 days of receiving ERCOT’s approval for Initial Synchronization above 20 MVA of a new or repowered Generation Resource or ESR, a Resource Entity shall ensure the Resource meets the conditions established by ERCOT for commercial operations and shall submit a request to ERCOT to commission the Resource.   
(a)	In the event a Generation Resource or ESR will be unable to complete all necessary construction and required testing to commence commercial operations and connect reliably to the ERCOT System within the 300 days, the Generation Resource or ESR may request a good cause exception with sufficient detail, and shall notify ERCOT prior to the planned commercial operation date and provide ERCOT with an updated commercial operation date that the Generation Resource or ESR can reasonably expect to commence operations in a reliable manner.
(4)	Prior to the Resource Commissioning Date of an Inverter-Based Resource (IBR), the IE associated with the IBR shall submit the appropriate dynamic models for the “as-built” data and the data submitted for the quarterly stability assessment, documentation clearly indicating any differences, results of the model quality tests of the “as-built” data overlaid with the results of the data submitted for the quarterly stability assessment, and associated simulation files pursuant to paragraph (5)(c) of Section 6.2, Dynamics Model Development.  Submissions shall be sent electronically to Dynamicmodels@ercot.com for ERCOT review, and the phrase "IBR prior to commissioning" must be included in the subject line of the submission email.  ERCOT shall respond to the IE within ten Business Days of the submission, indicating whether the submission is acceptable or if additional information is required.  If additional time is needed for review, ERCOT can extend this review period by an additional 20 Business Days, and an email will be sent to notify the IE that it needs additional time to review the submission.  The time for ERCOT to review models and associated documentation will be a qualified cause to extend the allowed time to complete the conditions established by ERCOT for commercial operations.
(5)	No later than 30 days following the Resource Commissioning Date, the Resource Entity shall submit updates to the resource dynamic planning and operations models through the online Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) system based on “as-built” data and provide a plant verification report as required by paragraph (5)(b) of Section 6.2.  Pursuant to paragraph (5)(c) of Section 6.2, the Resource Entity shall include model updates with model quality tests.
(6)	During continuing operations:
(a)	Prior to the implementation of modification to any control settings or equipment of an IBR that impacts the dynamic response (such as voltage, frequency, and current injections) at the Point of Interconnection (POI), the proposed modification shall be reviewed by the interconnecting Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and ERCOT:
(i)	The Resource Entity shall submit the appropriate dynamic model for the proposed modification, results of the model quality tests overlaid with the results before the modification, and associated simulation files pursuant to paragraph (5)(c) of Section 6.2.  Submissions shall be sent electronically to Dynamicmodels@ercot.com for ERCOT review, and the phrase "IBR proposed modification" must be included in the subject line of the submission email.  The Resource Entity may withdraw its modification plan at any time during the review process if the Resource Entity no longer wishes to proceed with the modification.
(ii)	ERCOT shall respond to the Resource Entity within ten Business Days of the submission in paragraph (i) above, indicating whether the submission is acceptable or if additional information is required.  ERCOT can extend this review period by an additional 20 Business Days, and an email will be sent to notify the Resource Entity that it needs additional time to review the submission. 
(iii)	Upon completing its review of the model quality tests, ERCOT shall notify the Resource Entity and the interconnecting TSP of its determination.  The notification will indicate one of the following:
(A)	ERCOT recommends that the interconnecting TSP conduct a limited dynamic stability study comparing electrical performance before and after the proposed modification, and reasonably evaluate whether the proposed modification may present dynamic stability risks that should be subject to further study.
(B)	The proposed modification is applicable to paragraph (1)(c)(iii) of Section 5.2.1, Applicability.  The Resource Entity shall initiate a Generator Interconnection or Modification (GIM) request through RIOO.
(C)	The proposed modification is deemed unacceptable.
(D)	The proposed modification is deemed acceptable without need for a dynamic stability study. 
(iv)	Within 90 days of the receipt of the accepted submission in paragraph (iii)(A) above, the interconnecting TSP shall submit its dynamic stability study report to ERCOT electronically to Dynamicmodels@ercot.com. 
(v)	ERCOT shall review the dynamic stability study report submitted by the interconnecting TSP within ten Business Days.  ERCOT can extend this review period by an additional 20 Business Days, and an email will be sent to notify the interconnecting TSP and the Resource Entity that it needs additional time to review the dynamic stability study report.  
(vi)	Upon completing its review and ERCOT acceptance of the dynamic stability study report, ERCOT shall notify the Resource Entity and the interconnecting TSP of its determination.  The notification will indicate one of the following:
(A)	The proposed modification is deemed acceptable.
(B)	The proposed modification is applicable to paragraph (1)(c) of Section 5.2.1.  The Resource Entity shall initiate a GIM request through RIOO.
(vii)	ERCOT, in consultation with the interconnecting TSP, may allow the proposed changes to be temporarily implemented prior to the above review process in order to address any identified performance deficiency. 
(b)	Pursuant to paragraph (5)(c) of Section 6.2, the Resource Entity shall include model updates with model quality tests.
(c)	The Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with a plant verification report as required by paragraph (5)(b) of Section 6.2 at the following times:
(i)	No later than 30 days after implementing a settings change as required by paragraph (7) of Section 6.2;
(ii)	No earlier than 12 months and no later than 24 months following the later of the Resource Commissioning Date or March 1, 2021; and
(iii)	A minimum of every ten years.






ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 6:  Data/Modeling

April 1, 2025







 
6	DATA/MODELING	1
6.1	STEADY-STATE MODEL DEVELOPMENT	1
6.2	DYNAMICS MODEL DEVELOPMENT	3
6.2.1	Dynamics Data Requirements for Generation Resources and Settlement Only Generators	7
6.2.2	Dynamics Data Requirements for Load Resources	7
6.2.3	Dynamics Data Requirements for Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers	7
6.2.4	Dynamics Data Screening and Maintenance	8
6.3	PROCESS FOR DEVELOPING SHORT CIRCUIT CASES	9
6.4	TRANSMISSION PROJECT AND INFORMATION TRACKING REPORT AND DATA REQUIREMENTS	10
6.4.1	Transmission Project and Information Tracking Report	10
6.4.2	ERCOT Responsibilities	11
6.4.3	TSP Responsibilities	11
6.4.4	Regional Transmission Plan Projects in Transmission Project and Information Tracking Report	11
6.4.5	Content of the Transmission Project and Information Tracking Report	11
6.5	ANNUAL LOAD DATA REQUEST	12
6.6	INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK	13
6.7	DATA DICTIONARY	13
6.8	RESOURCE REGISTRATION PROCEDURES	13
6.8.1	Resource Registration	14
6.8.2	Resource Registration Process	15
6.9	ADDITION OF PROPOSED GENERATION TO THE PLANNING MODELS	16
6.10	CONTINGENCY FILING REQUIREMENTS	18
6.11	PROCESS FOR DEVELOPING GEOMAGNETICALLY-INDUCED CURRENT (GIC) SYSTEM MODELS	18
6.12	ADDITION OF A PROPOSED DC TIE TO THE PLANNING MODELS	20























 
6	DATA/MODELING
6.1	Steady-State Model Development	
(1)	To adequately simulate steady-state system conditions, it is necessary to establish and maintain steady-state data and simulation-ready study cases in accordance with the ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual.  These case models, known as steady-state base cases, shall contain appropriate equipment characteristics and system data, and shall represent projected system conditions that provide a starting point for each required season and year.  
(a)	The Annual Planning Model base cases, which represent the annual peak load conditions, as prescribed in Protocol Section 3.10.2, Annual Planning Model, shall be developed annually, updated on a biannual basis, and may be updated as needed on an interim basis.  Each Annual Planning Model base case, biannual updates, and off-cycle updates shall be posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area to ensure availability of the most accurate steady-state base cases.  
(b)	Additional steady-state base cases, such as seasonal base cases, shall also be developed annually, updated on a biannual basis, and may also be updated as needed on an interim basis.  These derivative base cases, biannual updates, and off-cycle updates shall be posted on MIS Secure Area to ensure availability of the most accurate steady-state base cases.
(c)	Off-cycle updates not associated with the biannual update shall be posted in a timely manner and include:
		(i)	Corrections to significant errors discovered in modeling or major 				changes in operation configuration that affect the steady-state base 				cases; or 

(ii)	A significant change in the scope or timing of a transmission project or the development of a new transmission project that impacts either of the next two summer base cases. 
(d)	Off-cycle updates that are posted as described in paragraphs (1)(a) through (c) above shall be in the form of a Power System Simulator for Engineering (PSS/E) formatted incremental change file. 
(e)	All steady-state base cases and incremental change files on the MIS Secure Area shall be available for use by Market Participants. 
(f)	The ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual describes each base case that is required to be built.  The schedule for posting all steady-state base cases shall be made available on the MIS Secure Area. 
(2)	Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and ERCOT shall develop the steady-state base cases.  The steady-state base cases are derived from the Network Operations Model to ensure consistency of key characteristics, including Ratings, impedance and connectivity for Transmission Facilities that are common between the Network Operations Model and each steady-state base case.  Minor differences between the models will occur for several reasons.  For example: 
(a)	Additional detailed modeling may be added to the converted Network Operations Model for planning purposes.
(b)	Future projects are added to the converted Network Operations Model that do not exist in the Network Operations Model past the model build date used to extract a snapshot from the Network Operations Model. 
(3)	Using the Network Model Management System (NMMS), ERCOT and TSPs shall create steady-state models that represent current and planned system conditions from the following data elements:
(a)	Each TSP, or its Designated Agent, shall provide its respective transmission network steady-state model data, including load data.
(b)	Each TSP, or its Designated Agent, shall not include the impact of energy sources connected to the Distribution System that are registered with ERCOT and required to provide telemetry including, but not limited to, Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs), Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs), or Settlement Only Distribution Generators (SODGs) in its submitted Load data as negative loads or as embedded reductions in the submitted load forecast.
(c)	Each TSP, or its Designated Agent, shall include the impact of energy sources connected to the Distribution System that are not registered with ERCOT in its submitted Load data.  The methodology used shall be consistent across all TSPs and described in the ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual. 
(d)	ERCOT shall utilize the latest available Resource Entity and Private Use Network model data submitted to ERCOT by the Resource Entity and the Private Use Network owners through the Resource Registration process for Resource Entities.
(e)	ERCOT shall utilize proposed Generation Resource model data provided by the Interconnecting Entity (IE) during the generation interconnection process in accordance with Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification.  
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(e)	ERCOT shall utilize proposed Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR) model data provided by the Interconnecting Entity (IE) during the generation interconnection process in accordance with Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification. 
(f)	ERCOT shall determine the operating state of Generation Resources (MW, MVAr) using a security-constrained economic dispatch tool.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (f) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(f)	ERCOT shall determine the operating state of Generation Resources and ESRs (MW, MVAr) using a security-constrained economic dispatch tool.
(g)	ERCOT shall determine the import/export levels of asynchronous transmission interconnections based on historical data.
6.2	Dynamics Model Development
(1)	To adequately simulate dynamic and transient events in the ERCOT System, it is necessary to establish and maintain dynamics data and simulation-ready study cases representing the dynamic capability and frequency characteristics of machines and equipment connected to the ERCOT System.
(2)	Dynamics data is the network data and mathematical models required in accordance with the Reliability and Operations Subcommittee (ROS)-approved Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual for simulation of dynamic and transient events in the ERCOT System. 
(3)	For Resource Entities, dynamics data includes the data needed to represent the dynamic and transient response of Resource Entity-owned devices and/or Loads including but not limited to generating units, plants, and other equipment when connected to the ERCOT System including the data for any privately owned transmission system or collection system used to connect the Resource to the ERCOT System.
(4)	For Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), dynamics data needed to represent the dynamic and transient capability of TSP-owned devices including but not limited to Load shedding relays, protective relays, FACTS devices (e.g., SVC, STATCOMs), Direct Current Ties (DC Ties), variable-frequency transformers, automatically switched shunts, and transformers with automatic load tap changers.  
[PGRR101:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1133:]
(4)	For Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and owners of Direct Current Ties (DC Ties), dynamics data includes the data needed to represent the dynamic and transient capability of dynamic devices including but not limited to Load shedding relays, protective relays, FACTS devices (e.g., SVC, STATCOMs), DC Ties, variable-frequency transformers, automatically switched shunts, and transformers with automatic load tap changers.
(5)	The owner of a generator Facility or any dynamic device shall provide appropriate dynamics data to ERCOT, including the data for a planned Facility, in accordance with the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.  The dynamic data shall include the following:
(a)	A model with parameters that accurately represent the dynamics of the device and that is compatible with the current version of the planning and operations model software as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.  If a user written model is provided:
(i)	A model manual containing a technical description of the model characteristics, including descriptions for all model parameters and variables, a list of which parameters are commonly tuned for site-specific settings, and a description of procedures and considerations for using the model in dynamic simulations, including steady state representation and limitations for model adequacy and usability in the planning and operations model software; and
(ii)	The user-written model shall allow the user to determine the allocation of machine identifiers (bus numbers, bus names, machine IDs etc.) without restriction.
(b)	Verification reports that support the model data based on documented field settings shall be provided as specified in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual for Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), and for Transmission Elements represented by a dynamic model.  The reports shall demonstrate that the model parameters which are commonly tuned match site-specific settings implemented in the field.  For new Generation Resources and ESRs, these reports shall be provided as required in paragraph (5) of Section 5.5, Generator Commissioning and Continuing Operations.  For existing Generation Resources and ESRs, these reports shall be provided as required in paragraph (6) of Section 5.5.  For Transmission Elements represented by a dynamic model, these reports shall be provided no later than two years following energization of new equipment and updated a minimum of every ten years.    
(c)	Results of model quality tests and associated simulation files that demonstrate acceptable performance of the models in the planning model and operations software as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.  The Facility owner shall provide updated information whenever it provides a new or updated dynamic model to ERCOT representing a Generation Resource, ESR, or Transmission Element.  These tests ensure the quality of the provided dynamic data and models for use in numerous system studies and consistency across planning and operations software platforms.  Therefore, the Facility owner shall also assess sufficient sensitivities, including but not limited to Voltage Set Point at the Point of Interconnection (POI), real power output, and Reactive Power output to ensure acceptable model performance over the entire range of operating conditions.  The Facility owner shall provide an explanation if model responses do not match.
(i)	Facility owners shall include all site-specific dynamic models representing the Facility in the model quality tests.  Facility owners can perform the tests in a simple test system without requiring ERCOT System information.
(ii)	For Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) equipment aggregated together to form an IRR in accordance with paragraph (13) of Protocol Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, the dynamic model shall represent the aggregated IRR.
(iii)	Results for the following model quality tests shall be provided to demonstrate acceptable model performance.  Additional details about each test, including the set up and description of desirable response, are included in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.  
(A)	Flat start test:  A no-disturbance test shall be performed to demonstrate appropriate model initialization and the Facility’s dynamic response under a no-disturbance condition. 
(B)	Small voltage disturbance test:  A voltage step increase and decrease shall be applied to the POI to demonstrate the Facility’s dynamic response.
(C)	Large voltage disturbance test:
(1)	For IRRs, ESRs, and inverter-based transmission equipment, the high and low voltage ride-through profiles as described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.9.1, Voltage Ride-Through Requirements for Intermittent Renewable Resources and Energy Storage Resources Connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, shall be applied to the POI to demonstrate the Facility’s dynamic response.
(2)	For Resources other than IRRs, ESRs, and inverter-based equipment, a fault shall be applied to the POI to demonstrate the Facility’s dynamic response.
(D)	Small frequency disturbance test:  A frequency step increase and decrease shall be applied to the POI to demonstrate the Facility’s dynamic response.  
(E)	System strength test:  The model for IRRs and inverter-based Resources shall be tested under a few equivalent short circuit ratios, as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.  This tests the robustness of the model to varying system conditions. 
(d)	Inverter-Based Resources (IBRs) shall provide results of the unit model validation to demonstrate that the PSCAD model, as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual, accurately represents the dynamic responses of all inverter-based dynamic devices within the Facility.  This validation is not intended to be site-specific; rather it is intended to be a hardware type test, where models representing different inverter hardware are benchmarked for accuracy.  Validation results for a specific model of inverter can be submitted for multiple uses of that model of inverter.
(i)	The validation results shall be included when submitting a PSCAD model to ERCOT.
(ii)	Results for the following unit model validation tests shall be provided to demonstrate model accuracy.  Additional details about each test are included in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.
	(A)	Step change in voltage;
	(B)	Large voltage disturbance (voltage ride-through tests);
	(C)	System strength test;
	(D)	Phase angle jump test; and
	(E)	Subsynchronous test.
(6)	Dynamics data for a planned Facility will be updated by the Facility owner upon completion of the design for the Facility.
(7)	Updated dynamics data for an existing Facility shall be provided to ERCOT when field tests, inspections, or other information demonstrates that the dynamics data should be changed to accurately represent the dynamic characteristics of the Facility.
(8)	Dynamics Data is considered Protected Information pursuant to Protocol Section 1.3, Confidentiality.
(9)	Dynamics data shall be provided with the legal authority to provide the information to all TSPs.  If any of the information is considered Protected Information, the Facility owner shall indicate as such.
6.2.1	Dynamics Data Requirements for Generation Resources and Settlement Only Generators
[PGRR118:  Replace title above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
6.2.1	Dynamics Data Requirements for Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources, and Settlement Only Generators
(1)	A Resource Entity shall submit new or updated dynamics data in accordance with Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification.  The Resource Entity shall provide all dynamics data as described in paragraph (5) of Section 6.2, Dynamics Model Development, and the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.
(2)	A Resource Entity is responsible for tuning and validating the parameters that go into their models to ensure that the models produce an accurate representation of a device’s capability and response.  If ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or the Dynamics Working Group (DWG) identifies inappropriate or incomplete dynamics data, ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may reject the submitted dynamics data and will provide the Resource Entity an explanation for the rejection.  The Resource Entity shall take action to resolve discrepancies and provide updated dynamics data to ERCOT and the interconnecting TSP within 30 days.
6.2.2	Dynamics Data Requirements for Load Resources
(1)	ERCOT shall provide the updated Load Resource relay models.
(2)	Load Resource relay models shall be updated as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.
6.2.3	Dynamics Data Requirements for Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers
[PGRR101:  Replace the title for Section 6.2.3 above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1133:]
6.2.3	Dynamics Data Requirements for Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers, Direct Current Tie Facility Owners, and Direct Current Tie Operators
(1)	The owner of under-frequency Load shedding equipment shall provide necessary data to model under frequency Load shedding relays for their portion of the ERCOT System as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.
(2)	The owner of under voltage Load shedding equipment shall provide necessary data to model under voltage Load shedding relays for their portion of the ERCOT System as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.
(3)	When requested by ERCOT or a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP), the owner of protective relays, control systems, and Remedial Action Schemes (RASs) shall provide dynamics data needed to simulate their action.
(4)	The DWG shall document appropriate Load model data as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual for use in dynamic simulations.
(5)	The owner of a dynamic element connected to the transmission system shall provide the dynamic data needed to simulate the action of the device in dynamic simulations to ERCOT and the TDSP to which the element is connected.  
[PGRR101:  Insert paragraph (6) below with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1133 and renumber accordingly:]
(6)	Each DC Tie Facility owner shall provide the dynamic data needed to simulate the action of any dynamic elements located at its Facility in dynamic simulations to its DCTO, and the DCTO shall submit the data to ERCOT.  The DC Tie Facility owner is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data submitted to ERCOT through its DCTO.
(6)	The owner of a dynamic element connected to the transmission system shall verify the dynamic models through comparison with operational data of actual events or test results within five years of energization and a minimum of every ten years thereafter.  Industry accepted testing techniques shall be used for testing, measuring and calculating the modeling parameters.  The owner of the dynamic element shall document and retain results for the model verification effort.  Documentation shall include the operational data used to verify the modeling parameters. 
6.2.4	Dynamics Data Screening and Maintenance 
(1)	In order to maintain simulation-ready base cases and associated dynamics data files for use in dynamic simulations, ERCOT, in consultation with the DWG, shall perform dynamic simulations called flat-start simulations as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual.
(2)	The schedule for producing the flat start simulations will be reviewed annually and submitted to the ROS.
(3)	Transmission owners shall review the completeness and applicability of dynamics data used in the flat start simulation for equipment connected to their system.  The model should be appropriate for the equipment and the data shall be appropriate for the model.
(4)	ERCOT shall contact the appropriate TSP or Resource Entity to resolve any dynamics data problems, incomplete or missing data, encountered while preparing the flat start simulation.
(5)	Upon completion of each flat start simulation, ERCOT shall distribute an electronic copy of all files necessary to replicate the flat start simulation as described in the Dynamics Working Group Procedure Manual to the DWG.
(6)	ERCOT and the DWG shall document assumptions made, data created, and data changed during the creation of a flat start simulation.  
(7)	ERCOT shall be responsible for storing all of the dynamics data and shall maintain a repository of dynamics data with tuned parameters and any submitted revisions.  
(8)	Within 30 days of receipt, ERCOT shall forward all dynamics data received to the TSP to which the dynamics device is connected.
6.3	Process for Developing Short Circuit Cases
(1)	This Section describes the process for the development of the short circuit cases used for planning purposes.  Nodal Operating Guide Section 6, Disturbance Monitoring and System Protection, describes other non-planning aspects relating to system protection and disturbance monitoring requirements.
(a)	ERCOT shall collect the short circuit data sets or data updates developed by each Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and shall compile and maintain the short circuit cases.  
(b)	During the first quarter of each calendar year, ERCOT shall compile and distribute the Current Year (CY) short circuit case to the System Protection Working Group (SPWG).  
(c)	During the second quarter of each calendar year, ERCOT shall compile and distribute the Future Year (FY) short circuit cases for years two through five to the SPWG.     
(d)	The transmission and generation systems of each Facility owner in ERCOT shall be represented completely including positive and zero sequence data.  Generation Resource data shall be provided by the Resource Entity.  
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (d) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(d)	The transmission and generation systems of each Facility owner in ERCOT shall be represented completely including positive and zero sequence data.  Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR) data shall be provided by the Resource Entity.  
(e)	Each common bus within both the short circuit case and the corresponding steady-state load flow case shall have a matching bus name and matching bus number.  Each additional bus added to the short circuit case as necessary to perform short circuit studies shall be assigned a name and bus number that does not conflict with pre-existing names and bus numbers used in the current set of load flow cases.  
(f)	The positive sequence impedance of Transmission Elements used in both the load flow and short circuit cases shall be the same.
(g)	Zero sequence data shall include mutual impedance of multi-circuit transmission lines and of adjacent circuits within the same right-of-way, unless the TSP considers such impedance to be insignificant for studies made from this data.
6.4	Transmission Project and Information Tracking Report and Data Requirements
6.4.1	Transmission Project and Information Tracking Report
(1)	The ERCOT Transmission Project and Information Tracking (TPIT) report contains the status of the transmission projects (60 kV and above) that are classified as a Tier 1, 2, 3, or 4 project and are updated by the Steady State Working Group (SSWG).  Projects that meet the criteria under paragraph (2) below may be excluded from the TPIT report. 
(2)	The transmission projects listed in the TPIT report are typically projects that are planned for completion by a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) within the near-term planning horizon.  Projects that may not be listed in the TPIT report include:
(a)	Any project that requires Regional Planning Group (RPG) review and has not completed the review process;
(b)	Any project with a projected in-service date beyond the last year for which an ERCOT SSWG case is posted; 
(c)	Any project that consists of only a Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) or an Automatic Mitigation Plan (AMP) (which is not typically modeled); 
(d)	A minor physical change to a transmission line that does not affect the flow of power;
(e)	An impedance change that can be reasonably attributed to a rounding error or recalculation of parameters with no actual construction;
(f)	Any repair and replacement-in-kind project; or 
(g)	Any replacement of failed equipment with a rating and/or impedance change that will be included in the equipment owner’s next annual assessment.
6.4.2	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare the TPIT report using data supplied by each TSP, or its Designated Agent.  
(2)	ERCOT shall update the TPIT report with updated information provided through the SSWG case build or SSWG update process.
(3)	ERCOT shall publish the TPIT report on the ERCOT website on a triannual basis.
6.4.3	TSP Responsibilities
(1)	The TSP responsible for submitting model data used in the SSWG case build or SSWG case update shall provide information for its transmission projects to ERCOT.
(2)	The TSP shall provide transmission project data for inclusion in the TPIT report as specified in the ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual. 
6.4.4	Regional Transmission Plan Projects in Transmission Project and Information Tracking Report
(1)	Each year, with input from stakeholders, ERCOT develops a Regional Transmission Plan that identifies a set of reliability-driven and economic-driven transmission projects based on the current steady-state base cases.  Transmission projects identified in the Regional Transmission Plan are typically at varying stages within the planning process and thus, are subject to change.  When a Regional Transmission Plan project is deemed appropriate for inclusion in the steady-state base cases, the TSP shall initiate inclusion of the project in the Future Projects section of TPIT, and ERCOT shall assign a TPIT project number.  The project shall also remain in the Regional Transmission Plan section of the TPIT.  
6.4.5	Content of the Transmission Project and Information Tracking Report
(1)	The TPIT report shall contain: 
(a)	A section that describes each data field and the Entity responsible for providing the data within each field;
(b) 	A section for future projects;
(c)	A section for completed projects;
(d)	A section for cancelled projects;
(e)	A section for projects approved in the ERCOT Regional Transmission Plan; 
(f)	A section containing transmission owner project contact information; and
(g)	A section summarizing cost information.
6.5	Annual Load Data Request
(1)	The Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) or its Designated Agent must provide Load data each year to allow necessary ERCOT System reliability analysis and planning and to meet requirements of North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC).  Each TDSP or its Designated Agent is responsible for providing historical and forecasted Load data to ERCOT for all Loads connected to its system as outlined in the Annual Load Data Request Form Instructions.  Data supplied in the Annual Load Data Request (ALDR) is considered Protected Information.
(2)	Some or all of the following factors may be considered when developing Load forecast data:
(a)	Economic;
(b)	Demographic;
(c)	Customer trends;
(d)	Conservation;
(e)	Improvements in the efficiency of electrical energy uses; 
(f)	Other changes in the end uses of electricity; and
(g)	Weather effects.
(3)	Each Distribution Service Provider (DSP) or its Designated Agent directly interconnected with the ERCOT Transmission Grid shall provide annual Load forecasts to ERCOT as outlined in the Annual Load Data Request Form Instructions.
(4)	For each substation not owned by either a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or a DSP, the owner shall provide a substation Load forecast to the directly-connected TSP sufficient to allow it to adequately include that substation in its ALDR response.
(5)	ERCOT shall annually provide each DSP with a list of registered Distributed Generation (DG) facilities in the DSP’s territory, including information about how each facility is mapped to its designated Load in the Network Operations Model.  This list will be posted to the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.  In conjunction with the ALDR process, the DSP shall verify that each DG facility on the list is correctly mapped to its Load in the Network Operations Model.  TSPs shall cooperate with ERCOT and the DSP to verify that each DG facility on the list is correctly mapped to its Load in the Network Operations Model.    
(6)	The TDSP or its Designated Agent shall coordinate with the appropriate working group as described in the Annual Load Data Request Form Instructions for issues with data submissions. 
(7)	Load data that is incomplete, not timely submitted on the schedule, or not in the format defined in the Annual Load Data Request Form Instructions will be considered missing data.  For these missing Load data, ERCOT shall calculate Loads based on historical data and insert these Loads into the Load flow cases during Data Set A and Data Set B annual updates.
6.6	Intentionally Left Blank
6.7	Data Dictionary
(1)	The Data Dictionary provides additional bus data that is not included in the steady-state base cases or network model data.  The ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual defines the requirements for the planning portion of the Data Dictionary.  
(2)	The following items pertain to data updates:  
(a)	Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) shall submit all pertinent Data Dictionary data for each bus in its transmission system for Steady State Working Group (SSWG) models as specified in the ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual.
(b)	ERCOT shall provide pertinent Resource Entity data for the Data Dictionary.
(c)	Interim information is provided pursuant to Section 6.4.1, Transmission Project and Information Tracking Report.  TSPs may revise bus data for the Data Dictionary as necessary to reflect changes.
(3)	ERCOT shall make available a copy of the ERCOT Steady State Planning Data Dictionary and contingency files on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area per the ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual and in accordance with the schedule posted on the MIS Secure Area for Annual Planning Model Data Submittal.
6.8	Resource Registration Procedures
(1)	In accordance with Protocol Sections 3.7, Resource Parameters, 3.10, Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry, and 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, a Resource Entity shall register each Generation Resource, Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or Load Resource with ERCOT.  The Resource Entity shall submit Resource Registration data and information through the Resource Registration process pursuant to Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, and made available on the ERCOT website.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(1)	In accordance with Protocol Sections 3.7, Resource Parameters, 3.10, Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry, and 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, a Resource Entity shall register each Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or Load Resource with ERCOT.  The Resource Entity shall submit Resource Registration data and information through the Resource Registration process pursuant to Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, and made available on the ERCOT website.
6.8.1	Resource Registration
(1)	A Resource Entity shall submit complete Resource Registration data pursuant to Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, for each Generation Resource, SOG, or Load Resource prior to inclusion in applicable ERCOT systems.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(1)	A Resource Entity shall submit complete Resource Registration data pursuant to Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, for each Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or Load Resource prior to inclusion in applicable ERCOT systems.
(2)	All data elements requested in the Resource Registration process will be contained in the Resource Registration Glossary.  Changes, deletions or additions to the data elements in the Resource Registration Glossary will be made in accordance with the revision process specified for the Resource Registration Glossary.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the Resource Registration Glossary on the ERCOT website.
(4)	ERCOT shall post a detailed Resource Registration Guide on the ERCOT website that provides detailed instructions and explanations required for Resource Registration data and shall conform to the Resource Registration Glossary.
(5)	ERCOT shall make available related documents for Resource Registration on the ERCOT website and shall notify Market Participants when changes are made to the Resource Registration process and requirements, including Resource Registration forms, the Resource Registration Glossary, and the Resource Registration Guide.
(6)	As required by Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, Generation Resources shall provide accurate initial data for inclusion in the ERCOT Network Operations Model.  The data will be used to model future generation for Steady State Working Group (SSWG), Dynamics Working Group (DWG), and System Protection Working Group (SPWG) base cases.
6.8.2	Resource Registration Process
(1)	A Resource Entity shall submit the Resource Registration data for Generation Resources, SOGs, or Load Resources as described in the Resource Registration Glossary. 
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(1)	A Resource Entity shall submit the Resource Registration data for Generation Resources, ESRs, SOGs, or Load Resources as described in the Resource Registration Glossary. 
(2)	Upon receipt of the Resource Registration data, ERCOT shall review the completeness and accuracy of the data submission.  ERCOT shall provide notice of acceptance and/or deficiencies to the Resource Entity.  
(3)	ERCOT shall provide notice to the Resource Entity if the Resource Registration data is accepted, which is not the same as an approved Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR).  The acceptance of the Resource Registration data only means that the registered data moves to the next step of being converted to a NOMCR.  After acceptance and/or approval, the data is still subject to various and continuous validation processes. 
(4)	If ERCOT’s notice reports deficiencies through the data submission process or through subsequent validation processes, the Resource Entity shall make necessary changes specified and re-submit the Resource Registration data as necessary, until acceptance of the total set of registered data is granted.
(5)	Upon acceptance of the Resource Registration data, ERCOT shall provide the Resource Entity with the model ready date on which the Resource Registration data will be implemented in production.  Although a model ready date has been provided, subsequent data corrections may be required as a result of validation processes.  
(6)	If a Resource Entity desires that the submitted Resource Registration data become effective earlier than the schedule established in Protocol Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes, it may submit a request for interim update as described in the Resource Registration Guide.
(7)	ERCOT shall notify each Resource Entity when applicable changes to the model are processed and implemented in accordance with Protocol Section 3.10.1.
(8)	A Resource Entity shall revise the Resource Registration data as required by this Section to reflect changes in any data related to a Generation Resource, SOG, or Load Resource.  
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(8)	A Resource Entity shall revise the Resource Registration data as required by this Section to reflect changes in any data related to a Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or Load Resource.  
(9)	The Resource Entity must submit updated Resource Registration data containing changes made for the reasons below for a Generation Resource, SOG, or Load Resource:
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (9) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(9)	The Resource Entity must submit updated Resource Registration data containing changes made for the reasons below for a Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or Load Resource:
(a)	Within ten Business Days of ERCOT approval of a Net Dependable Capability test to reflect the results of the test;
(b)	Within ten Business Days of ERCOT approval of a reactive capability test to reflect the results of the test;
(c)	Within ten Business Days of a request by ERCOT to check or update specific Resource Registration data; and
(d)	Within ten Business Days of a known change to any Resource Registration data.
6.9	Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models
(1)	For large generators meeting the conditions of paragraph (1) of Section 5.2.1, Applicability, ERCOT will include applicable generation in the base cases created and maintained by the Steady State Working Group (SSWG) once each of the following has occurred:
(a)	The Interconnecting Entity (IE) has posted to the online Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) systems all data required in the Security Screening Study, if the Full Interconnection Study (FIS) has not started, or the FIS, if the FIS has started; 
(b)	The IE has posted to the online RIOO system documentation that it has received all necessary Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ)-approved air permits or that no such permits are required and ERCOT has accepted the IE’s submission;
(c)	The IE has submitted via the online RIOO system a completed Declaration of Adequate Water Supplies (Section 8, Attachment B, Declaration of Adequate Water Supplies; generation types exempt from this requirement are cited in Attachment B); and 
(d)	ERCOT receives one of the following via the online RIOO system:
(i)	A signed Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA) from the Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and a written notice from the TSP that the IE has provided: 
(A)	A notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and
(B)	The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities; or 
(ii)	A public, financially binding agreement between the IE and the TSP under which the interconnection for the applicable generation will be constructed along with: 
(A)	A written notice from the TSP that the IE has provided notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and
(B)	The required financial security; or 
(iii)	A letter from a duly authorized official from a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or Electric Cooperative (EC) confirming the Entity’s intent to construct and operate applicable generation and interconnect such generation to its own transmission system.  
(2)	Upon receiving notice from ERCOT that the large generator has met the requirements of paragraph (1) above, the IE shall provide within 60 days the remaining required data as specified in the Resource Registration Glossary, Planning Model column, using the applicable Resource Registration process.  The purpose of submitting the data is for modeling of the applicable generation in the base cases created and maintained by the System Protection Working Group (SPWG) and the Dynamics Working Group (DWG).
(3)	For small generators meeting the conditions of paragraph (1) of Section 5.2.1, ERCOT will include applicable generation in the base cases created and maintained by the SSWG, SPWG, and DWG once ERCOT has determined that the IE has submitted all data required on the Resource Registration form and after inclusion of the generator in the Network Operations Model. 
(4)	Once the IE has met these requirements, ERCOT will notify the SSWG, SPWG, and DWG that the applicable generation will be included in the base cases created and maintained by these working groups.
6.10	Contingency Filing Requirements
(1)	Each Transmission Service Provider (TSP), or the entity designated as its modeling entity in Appendix A to the ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual, shall provide updates to the ERCOT contingency list corresponding to the steady-state base cases for the TSP’s existing system and planned future Transmission Facilities.  ERCOT shall post the list to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.  The list shall be reviewed and updated as described in the ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual.  At a minimum, the list shall contain all required category P1, P2, P4, P5, and P7 contingencies, as described in the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standard addressing Transmission System Planning Performance Requirements, all contingencies representing the Forced Outage of a double circuit (two circuits on the same structures in excess of 0.5 miles in length), all contingencies representing the Outage of a double circuit (two circuits on the same structure in excess of 0.5 miles in length) where both circuits must be taken out for a maintenance outage, and any other contingencies described in the ERCOT Steady State Working Group Procedure Manual.  
6.11	Process for Developing Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) System Models
(1)	To adequately simulate Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) events, it is necessary to establish and maintain Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) system models and conduct geomagnetic disturbance vulnerability assessments to determine whether the ERCOT System can meet the performance requirements of the benchmark and supplemental geomagnetic disturbance event described in North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.  These GIC system models shall contain appropriate system data, and shall represent projected system conditions that provide a starting point for the required year(s).  
(a)	ERCOT, in collaboration with Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Resource Entities, shall develop and maintain the GIC system models.  The GIC system models are derived from the steady-state base cases developed by Steady State Working Group (SSWG) for the near-term transmission planning horizon to ensure consistency between the system topology in the SSWG base cases and GIC system models. 
(b)	ERCOT, in collaboration with TSPs and Resource Entities, may set a Generation Resource to out of service prior to receiving a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource.
(i)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (1)(b) above on the ERCOT website.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(b)	ERCOT, in collaboration with TSPs and Resource Entities, may set a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) to out of service prior to receiving a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource.
(i)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources and ESRs that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (1)(b) above on the ERCOT website.
(c)	Each TSP, or its Designated Agent, shall provide its respective transmission network GIC model data in accordance with the GIC System Model Procedure Manual.
(d)	Each Resource Entity, or its Designated Agent, shall provide its respective Resource Entity-owned generating units, plants, transmission lines, shunt devices, Main Power Transformers (MPTs), and Generator Step-Ups (GSUs) connected to the ERCOT System in accordance with the GIC System Model Procedure Manual and the Resource Registration Glossary. 
(e)	ERCOT shall aggregate the GIC system model data supplied by each TSP and Resource Entity and shall compile the data to form the GIC system models.  Upon completion of compiling the data for the GIC system models, ERCOT and the TSPs shall review and finalize the GIC system models.  Upon completion of the review of the GIC system models, ERCOT shall post these models on the ERCOT Market Information System (MIS) Certified Transmission Service Provider Information page.  
(f)	Guidelines and formats for the GIC system model data and model maintenance can be found in the GIC System Model Procedure Manual.
(g)	GIC data is considered Protected Information pursuant to Protocol Section 1.3, Confidentiality.
(2)	Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT for use in the GMD vulnerability assessments as outlined in Section 3.1.8, Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities:
(a)	A list of equipment potentially removed from service as a result of protection system operation or misoperation due to harmonics that could result from the benchmark GMD event.
(b)	A list of equipment potentially removed from service as a result of protection system operation or misoperation due to harmonics that could result from the supplemental GMD event.
(3)	TSPs and Resource Entities may refer to a Reliability and Operations Subcommittee (ROS)-approved methodology for developing the equipment lists described in paragraph (2) above.  TSPs and Resource Entities are not required to submit the equipment lists described in paragraph (2) above until 30 days after ROS approves a methodology.
6.12	Addition of a Proposed DC Tie to the Planning Models
(1)	For a proposed Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) that will not be owned by a Transmission Service Provider (TSP), ERCOT will include the applicable DC Tie in the base cases created and maintained by the Steady State Working Group (SSWG), System Protection Working Group (SPWG), and the Dynamics Working Group (DWG), and will notify the SSWG, SPWG, and DWG once ERCOT receives: 
(a)	A signed interconnection agreement from the TSP and a written notice from the TSP that the DC Tie developer has provided: 
(i)	A notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection;
(ii)	The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities; and
(b)	The data required under paragraph (2) below.  
(2)	ERCOT will provide notice to the DC Tie developer of the specific data ERCOT requires to model the DC Tie after ERCOT receives the information required under paragraph (1)(a) above.    
(a)	ERCOT retains discretion to request any data it deems necessary to model the new DC Tie. 
(b)	The DC Tie developer shall provide the data to ERCOT within 60 days of receiving the notice from ERCOT specifying the data required.






ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 7:   Market Data Transparency
February 1, 2025






 
7	MARKET DATA TRANSPARENCY	1
7.1	PLANNING DATA AND INFORMATION	1

 
7	MARKET DATA TRANSPARENCY
7.1	Planning Data and Information
(1)	The information available on the ERCOT website or applicable Market Information System (MIS) (i.e., Secure or Certified Areas) includes, but is not limited to, planning information pertaining to the following:
(a)	Long-term planning;
(b)	Regional transmission planning;
(c)	Steady state data;
(d)	Resource integration;
(e)	Case studies and files used in planning;
(f)	Model information; and
(g)	Data and information available to specific groups of Market Participants.
(i)	Market Participants with a nondisclosure agreement with ERCOT have designated sections on the MIS that allow access to the certified posting of group information.  
(ii)	Market Participants may access the artifacts posted for their respective groups on the MIS Secure Area.
[PGRR116:  Insert paragraph (h) below upon system implementation of NPRR1240:]
(h)	Information on the ERCOT website pertaining to energy and demand shall include monthly reports with 15-minute interval data.
(2)	The list below includes both data set and designated classification of the available planning data and information.  Where the information is classified as “Certified,” the appropriate Market Participant category or group is “(all TSPs)” to indicate all Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) or “(PDCWG members)” to indicate members of the Performance, Disturbance, Compliance Working Group (PDCWG). 
Data Set	Classification
Aggregated Wind Output	ERCOT website
Annual Planning Model Data Submittal Schedule	Secure
Demand and Energy Monthly Reports	Secure
Dynamic Data Information	Certified (all TSPs)
Economic Studies of Transmission Projects for New Generation	Secure
ERCOT Long-Term System Assessment (LTSA) (except for Protected Information) 	Secure
ERCOT LTSA	Certified (all TSPs)
ERCOT Steady State Planning Contingency Files	Secure
ERCOT System Operating Limit (SOL) Methodology	ERCOT website
Generation Data Forms	Secure
Generator Interconnection Status (GIS) Report	ERCOT website
Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) Flow Information
Secure
Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Vulnerability Assessment Postings (except for Protected Information) – includes ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII)	Secure
GMD Vulnerability Assessment Postings – includes ECEII and Protected Information	Certified (all TSPs)
GMD Vulnerability Assessment Postings (redacted) – excludes ECEII and Protected Information	ERCOT website
Documents Initiating a Generation Interconnection or Change Request (GINR)	Certified (all TSPs)
GINR Security Screening Studies and Supporting Documents	Secure
Sub-synchronous Oscillation Studies and Supporting Documents	Certified (all TSPs)
Full Interconnection Study (FIS): Steady-State, System Protection, Stability, and Facility Studies and Supporting Documents (except for Protected Information)	Secure
FIS: Draft Steady-State, System Protection, Stability, and Facility Studies and Supporting Documents	Certified (all TSPs)
Independent Market Monitor (IMM) and Topology Processor Supporting Documents	Certified (all TSPs)
Performance, Disturbance, Compliance Working Group (PDCWG) Group Documents and Project Files	Certified (PDCWG members)
Public Generation Information	ERCOT website
Remedial Action Plan (RAP) Review Cases	Certified (all TSPs)
Resource Registration Data	Certified (all TSPs)
Regional Planning Group Projects	Secure
Regional Transmission Plan Postings (except for Protected Information) – includes ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII)	Secure
Regional Transmission Plan Postings – includes ECEII and Protected Information	Certified (all TSPs)
Regional Transmission Plan Postings (redacted) – excludes ECEII and Protected Information	ERCOT website
Seasonal Voltage Profile Studies	Certified (all TSPs)
Special Planning Studies (except for Protected Information)	Secure
Special Planning Studies	Certified (all TSPs)
Steady State Power Flow Base Cases	Secure
Steady State Power Flow Case Data	Certified (all TSPs)
Steady State Topology Processor Files	Secure
Steady State Transmission Project and Information Tracking (TPIT) Procedures	Secure
System Protection Short Circuit Data	Secure
Transient Stability Screening Study for ERCOT System	Certified (all TSPs)
TSP Planning Criteria and Procedures	Secure
Voltage Stability Screening Study for ERCOT System	Certified (all TSPs)

[PGRR116:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1240:]
(2)	The list below includes both data set and designated classification of the available planning data and information.  Where the information is classified as “Certified,” the appropriate Market Participant category or group is “(all TSPs)” to indicate all Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) or “(PDCWG members)” to indicate members of the Performance, Disturbance, Compliance Working Group (PDCWG).  “RIOO-RS” indicates information in Resource Integration and On-going Operations–Resource Services.  Information classified as “Public” is available on the ERCOT website.  The list below is intended to be only a general guide and not controlling language, and any conflict between this list and another section of the Planning Guide is controlled by the other section.                              
Data Set	Classification
Aggregated Wind Output	Public
Annual Planning Model Data Submittal Schedule	Secure
Demand and Energy Monthly Reports	ERCOT website
Dynamic Data Information	Certified (all Transmission Service Providers (TSPs))
Economic Studies of Transmission Projects for New Generation	Secure
ERCOT Long-Term System Assessment (LTSA) (except for Protected Information) – includes ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII)	Secure
ERCOT LTSA – includes ECEII and Protected Information	Certified (all TSPs)
ERCOT LTSA (redacted) – excludes ECEII and Protected Information	ERCOT website
ERCOT Steady State Planning Contingency Files	Secure
ERCOT System Operating Limit (SOL) Methodology	Public
Generator Interconnection Status (GIS) Report	Public
Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) Flow Information
Secure
Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Vulnerability Assessment Postings (except for Protected Information)	Secure
GMD Vulnerability Assessment Postings	Certified (all TSPs)
Documents Initiating a Generation Interconnection or Change Request 	Secure (RIOO-RS)
Security Screening Studies and Supporting Documents	Secure (RIOO-RS)
Sub-synchronous Oscillation Studies and Supporting Documents	Certified (all TSPs)
Full Interconnection Study (FIS): Steady-State, System Protection, Stability, and Facility Studies and Supporting Documents (except for Protected Information)	Secure
FIS: Draft Steady-State, System Protection, Stability, and Facility Studies and Supporting Documents	Certified (all TSPs)
Independent Market Monitor (IMM) and Topology Processor Supporting Documents	Certified (all TSPs)
Performance, Disturbance, Compliance Working Group (PDCWG) Group Documents and Project Files	Certified (PDCWG members)
Public Generation Information	Public
Remedial Action Plan (RAP) Review Cases	Certified (all TSPs)
Resource Registration Data	Certified (all TSPs)
Regional Planning Group Projects	Secure
Regional Transmission Plan Postings (except for Protected Information)	Secure
Regional Transmission Plan Postings	Certified (all TSPs)
Seasonal Voltage Profile Studies	Certified (all TSPs)
Special Planning Studies (except for Protected Information)	Secure
Special Planning Studies	Certified (all TSPs)
Steady State Power Flow Base Cases	Secure
Steady State Power Flow Case Data	Certified (all TSPs)
Steady State Topology Processor Files	Secure
Steady State Transmission Project and Information Tracking (TPIT) Procedures	Secure
System Protection Short Circuit Data	Secure
Transient Stability Screening Study for ERCOT System	Certified (all TSPs)
TSP Planning Criteria and Procedures	ERCOT website
Voltage Stability Screening Study for ERCOT System	Certified (all TSPs)


ERCOT Planning Guide

Section 8 

Attachment A:  Declaration of Resource Data Accuracy
January 1, 2019




 
Declaration of Resource Data Accuracy


Name of Interconnecting Entity:

_____________________________________________________

Name and INR number of Project:

_____________________________________________________

Declaration Submission Period: 

• March 1-15, 20___

• September 1-15, 20___

By signing below, I certify that I am knowledgeable about the design of the above-named project, and that the Resource registration form most recently submitted to ERCOT for the above-named project accurately reflects the anticipated characteristics of the proposed Resource and the project contact information in the online Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) system is correct.

I further certify that I am authorized to execute and submit this declaration on behalf of the Interconnecting Entity listed above, and that the statements contained herein are true and correct.

 
______________________________________
Signature

______________________________________
Name

______________________________________
Title

______________________________________
Date



ERCOT Planning Guide

Section 8 

Attachment B:  Declaration of Adequate Water Supplies
April 1, 2025




 
Declaration of Adequate Water Supplies

An Interconnecting Entity (IE) must submit this attestation form to notify ERCOT that water rights, contracts or groundwater supplies sufficient for generation of electricity have been obtained or that water supplies are not required for the generation of electricity at each proposed Generation Resource.  Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, requires an IE to submit this form before ERCOT may include certain proposed Generation Resources in the base cases created and maintained by the Steady State Working Group (SSWG), the System Protection Working Group (SPWG), and the Dynamics Working Group (DWG).  Any IE that proposes to interconnect a Generation Resource powered by wind, photovoltaic solar, or battery energy storage Resources does not need to submit this form.  However, any IE proposing to interconnect any other type of Generation Resource must submit this form, even if the IE’s proposed Resource will not use water. 
Each IE should submit this attestation for each unique Generation Resource Interconnection Request (GINR) within ten Business Days of securing the relevant water supply rights, or, for Generation Resources that do not require water supplies to operate, within ten Business Days of executing the Interconnection Agreement with the Transmission Service Provider (TSP).  The attestation should be signed by an officer or other individual with authority to bind the IE.  The IE should submit the attestation and the necessary attachments to ERCOT via the online Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) system.

ATTESTATION

Name of Interconnecting Entity:

_____________________________________________________

Name and GINR Number of Project:

_____________________________________________________

By signing below, I certify that I am knowledgeable about the above-named project, and hereby represent as follows (check one of the following):

0 No water rights, contracts or groundwater supplies are needed for the above-named proposed Generation Resource to generate electricity.

0 The IE, the owner of the proposed Generation Resource, or another similarly situated party has secured water rights, contracts or groundwater supplies sufficient for the generation of electricity at the above-named proposed Generation Resource.  A copy of the relevant contract(s), permit(s) and/or groundwater adequacy studies is attached to this declaration.  The right(s) or contract(s) allows the Generation Resource owner or operator access to water according to the following terms (describe basic terms, including quantity, duration, and conditions of access):

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________





______________________________________
Signature

______________________________________
Name

______________________________________
Title

______________________________________
Date


 

[PGRR118:  Replace Section 8, Attachment B, above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
Declaration of Adequate Water Supplies

An Interconnecting Entity (IE) must submit this attestation form to notify ERCOT that water rights, contracts or groundwater supplies sufficient for generation of electricity have been obtained or that water supplies are not required for the generation of electricity at each proposed Generation Resource.  Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, requires an IE to submit this form before ERCOT may include certain proposed Generation Resources in the base cases created and maintained by the Steady State Working Group (SSWG), the System Protection Working Group (SPWG), and the Dynamics Working Group (DWG).  Any IE that proposes to interconnect a Generation Resource powered by wind or photovoltaic solar, or an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), does not need to submit this form.  However, any IE proposing to interconnect any other type of Generation Resource must submit this form, even if the IE’s proposed Resource will not use water. 
Each IE should submit this attestation for each unique Generation Resource Interconnection Request (GINR) within ten Business Days of securing the relevant water supply rights, or, for Generation Resources that do not require water supplies to operate, within ten Business Days of executing the Interconnection Agreement with the Transmission Service Provider (TSP).  The attestation should be signed by an officer or other individual with authority to bind the IE.  The IE should submit the attestation and the necessary attachments to ERCOT via the online Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) system.

ATTESTATION

Name of Interconnecting Entity:

_____________________________________________________

Name and GINR Number of Project:

_____________________________________________________

By signing below, I certify that I am knowledgeable about the above-named project, and hereby represent as follows (check one of the following):

0 No water rights, contracts or groundwater supplies are needed for the above-named proposed Generation Resource to generate electricity.

0 The IE, the owner of the proposed Generation Resource, or another similarly situated party has secured water rights, contracts or groundwater supplies sufficient for the generation of electricity at the above-named proposed Generation Resource.  A copy of the relevant contract(s), permit(s) and/or groundwater adequacy studies is attached to this declaration.  The right(s) or contract(s) allows the Generation Resource owner or operator access to water according to the following terms (describe basic terms, including quantity, duration, and conditions of access):

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________________





______________________________________
Signature

______________________________________
Name

______________________________________
Title

______________________________________
Date




ERCOT Planning Guide

Section 8 

Attachment C:  Declaration of Department of Defense Notification
April 1, 2025




 
Declaration of Department of Defense Notification

Interconnecting Entity (IE):________________________________________________ 


This declaration applies to the following proposed Generation Resource: 

_______________________________________________
 

Check the below listed attestation(s) which apply to the Generation Resource. 

I hereby attest that:

____	This IE has notified the Department of Defense (DOD) Siting Clearinghouse of the above listed proposed Generation Resource and requested that it perform an Informal Review and/or Formal Review as described in 32 C.F.R. § 211.1 (2013);  

____	This IE has completed the formal review process for the Generation Resource with the Department of Defense (DOD) Siting Clearinghouse and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as described in 14 C.F.R. § 77.7 (2010) and 32 C.F.R. § 211.6 (2013); or

____	The above listed proposed Generation Resource is exempt from the requirement to seek review from the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as described in 14 C.F.R. § 77.7 (2010) and 32 C.F.R. § 211.6 (2013). 


By signing below, I certify that I am an officer, executive, or authorized employee with authority to bind the IE listed above, that I am authorized to execute and submit this declaration on behalf of each IE listed above, and that, to the best of my knowledge, the statements contained herein are true and correct.

   
______________________________________
Signature

______________________________________
Name

______________________________________
Title

______________________________________
Date

 

[PGRR118:  Replace Section 8, Attachment C, above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
Declaration of Department of Defense Notification

Interconnecting Entity (IE): ________________________________________________ 


This declaration applies to the following proposed Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR): ________________________________________________
 


Check the below listed attestation(s) which apply to the Generation Resource or ESR. 

I hereby attest that:

____	This IE has notified the Department of Defense (DOD) Siting Clearinghouse of the above listed proposed Generation Resource or ESR and requested that it perform an Informal Review and/or Formal Review as described in 32 C.F.R. § 211.1 (2013);  

____	This IE has completed the formal review process for the Generation Resource or ESR with the Department of Defense (DOD) Siting Clearinghouse and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as described in 14 C.F.R. § 77.7 (2010) and 32 C.F.R. § 211.6 (2013); or

____	The above listed proposed Generation Resource or ESR is exempt from the requirement to seek review from the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as described in 14 C.F.R. § 77.7 (2010) and 32 C.F.R. § 211.6 (2013). 


By signing below, I certify that I am an officer, executive, or authorized employee with authority to bind the IE listed above, that I am authorized to execute and submit this declaration on behalf of each IE listed above, and that, to the best of my knowledge, the statements contained herein are true and correct.

   
______________________________________
Signature

______________________________________
Name

______________________________________
Title

______________________________________





ERCOT Planning Guide

Section 8 

Attachment D:  Attestation Regarding Compliance with the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act
April 1, 2022




 
Attestation Regarding Compliance with the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act


Name of Interconnecting Entity (IE):

_____________________________________________________


IE’s Interconnection Request (INR) number:

______________________________________________________


Check the one box that applies [do not check both boxes]:

1.	With respect to the above referenced IE and INR number and with respect to each Entity with an ownership interest in the real property to be utilized by the above referenced IE’s project (“Property Owner”), I hereby attest that:

   	NONE of the following statements in paragraphs (A) - (C) are TRUE.

   	ONE OR MORE of the following statements in paragraphs (A) - (C) are TRUE.


(A)	The IE or Property Owner, or a wholly owned subsidiary, majority-owned subsidiary, parent company, or affiliate of the IE or Property Owner, is owned by:

(i)	individuals who are citizens of China, Iran, North Korea, Russia, or a designated country;  or

(ii)	a company or other entity, including a governmental entity, that is owned or controlled by citizens of or is directly controlled by the government of China, Iran, North Korea, Russia, or a designated country; or

(B)	The majority of stock or other ownership interest of the IE or Property Owner, or a wholly owned subsidiary, majority-owned subsidiary, parent company, or affiliate of the above referenced IE or Property Owner is held or controlled by:

(i)	individuals who are citizens of China, Iran, North Korea, Russia, or a designated country; or

(ii)	a company or other entity, including a governmental entity, that is owned or controlled by citizens of or is directly controlled by the government of China, Iran, North Korea, Russia, or a designated country; or

(C)	The IE or Property Owner, or a wholly owned subsidiary, majority-owned subsidiary, parent company, or affiliate of the IE or Property Owner is headquartered in China, Iran, North Korea, Russia, or a designated country.

By signing below, I certify that I am an officer, executive, or authorized employee with authority to bind the IE listed above, that I am authorized to execute and submit this attestation on behalf of each IE listed above, and that the statements contained herein are true and correct.


_____________________________________________ 
Signature

_____________________________________________ 
Name

_____________________________________________ 
Title

_____________________________________________ 
Date



ERCOT Nodal Protocols 

Section 1:  Overview
April 1, 2025



 
1	OVERVIEW	1-1
1.1	Summary of the ERCOT Protocols Document	1-1
1.2	Functions of ERCOT	1-2
1.3	Confidentiality	1-4
1.3.1	Restrictions on Protected Information	1-4
1.3.1.1	Items Considered Protected Information	1-5
1.3.1.2	Items Not Considered Protected Information	1-12
1.3.1.3	Procedures for Protected Information	1-13
1.3.1.4	Expiration of Protected Information Status	1-14
1.3.2	ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information	1-15
1.3.2.1	Items Considered ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information	1-16
1.3.2.2	Submission of ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information to ERCOT	1-18
1.3.3	RESERVED	1-18
1.3.4	Protecting Disclosures to the PUCT, FERC, CFTC, Governmental Cybersecurity Oversight Agencies, and Other Governmental Authorities	1-18
1.3.5	Notice Before Permitted Disclosure	1-19
1.3.6	Exceptions	1-20
1.3.7	Specific Performance	1-25
1.3.8	Commission Review of ERCOT Determinations Regarding Protected Information or ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information Status	1-26
1.4	Operational Audit	1-26
1.4.1	Materials Subject to Audit	1-26
1.4.2	ERCOT Finance and Audit Committee	1-26
1.4.3	Operations Audit	1-27
1.4.3.1	Audits to Be Performed	1-27
1.4.3.2	Material Issues	1-27
1.4.4	Audit Results	1-28
1.4.5	Availability of Records	1-28
1.4.6	Confidentiality of Information	1-28
1.5	ERCOT Fees and Charges	1-29
1.6	Open Access to the ERCOT Transmission Grid	1-29
1.6.1	Overview	1-29
1.6.2	Eligibility for Transmission Service	1-29
1.6.3	Nature of Transmission Service	1-29
1.6.4	Payment for Transmission Access Service	1-29
1.6.5	Interconnection of New or Existing Generation	1-30
1.7	Rules of Construction	1-32
1.8	Effective Date	1-35

 
1	OVERVIEW
1.1	Summary of the ERCOT Protocols Document
(1)	The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Protocols, created through the collaborative efforts of representatives of all segments of Market Participants, means the document adopted by ERCOT, including any attachments or exhibits referenced in these Protocols, as amended from time to time, that contains the scheduling, operating, planning, reliability, and Settlement (including Customer registration) policies, rules, guidelines, procedures, standards, and criteria of ERCOT.  To determine responsibilities at a given time, the version of the ERCOT Protocols in effect at the time of the performance or non-performance of an action governs with respect to that action.  These Protocols are intended to implement ERCOT’s functions as the Independent Organization for the ERCOT Region as certified by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) and as the Program Administrator appointed by the PUCT that is responsible for carrying out the administrative responsibilities related to the Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Program as set forth in subsection (h) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  Market Participants, the Independent Market Monitor (IMM), and ERCOT shall abide by these Protocols. 
(2)	The ERCOT Board, Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), and other ERCOT subcommittees authorized by the ERCOT Board or TAC or ERCOT may develop polices, guidelines, procedures, forms, and applications for the implementation of and operation under, these Protocols and to comply with applicable rules, laws, and orders of a Governmental Authority.  A policy, guideline, procedure, form, or application described above is an “Other Binding Document.”  Other Binding Documents do not include ERCOT’s internal administrative procedures, documents and processes necessary to fulfill its role as the Independent Organization or as a registered Entity with the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC). 
(3)	ERCOT shall post the Other Binding Documents List and all Other Binding Documents to a part of the ERCOT website reserved for posting Other Binding Documents.  A TAC designated subcommittee shall review the Other Binding Documents List at least every four years, and modifications to the Other Binding Documents List shall be reviewed and considered by the TAC designated subcommittee and by TAC at its next scheduled meeting.  
(4)	Any revision of an Other Binding Document must follow the revision process set forth in that Other Binding Document.  If an Other Binding Document does not specify a revision process, the Other Binding Document shall be subject to the procedures in Section 21, Revision Request Process, and shall be treated as if it were a Protocol for purposes of the revision process.  
(5)	To the extent that Other Binding Documents are not in conflict with these Protocols or with an Agreement to which it is a party, each Market Participant, the IMM, and ERCOT shall abide by the Other Binding Documents.  Taken together, these Protocols and the Other Binding Documents constitute all of the “scheduling, operating, planning, reliability, and Settlement policies, rules, guidelines, and procedures established by the independent System Operator in ERCOT,” as that phrase is used in subsection (j) of the Public Utility Regulatory Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 39.151 (Vernon 1998 & Supp. 2007) (PURA), Essential Organizations, that bind Market Participants.
(6)	Except as provided below, if the provisions in any attachment to these Protocols or in any of the Other Binding Documents conflict with the provisions of Section 1, Overview, through Section 21, and Section 24, Retail Point to Point Communications, through Section 27, Securitization Uplift Charges, then the provisions of Section 1 through Section 21, and Section 24 through Section 27 prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.  If any provision of any Agreement conflicts with any provision of the Protocols, the Agreement prevails to the extent of the conflict.  Any Agreement provision that deviates from the standard form for that Agreement in Section 22, Attachments, must expressly state that the Agreement provision deviates from the standard form in Section 22.  Agreement provisions that deviate from the Protocols are effective only upon approval by the ERCOT Board on a showing of good cause.   
(7)	These Protocols are not intended to govern the direct relationships between or among Market Participants except as expressly provided in these Protocols.  ERCOT is not responsible for any relationship between or among Market Participants to which ERCOT is not a party.
1.2	Functions of ERCOT
(1)	ERCOT is the Independent Organization certified by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) for the ERCOT Region. The major functions of ERCOT, as the Independent Organization, are to: 
(a)	Ensure access to the ERCOT Transmission Grid and distribution systems for all buyers and sellers of electricity on nondiscriminatory terms; 
(b)	Ensure the reliability and adequacy of the ERCOT Transmission Grid;
(c)	Ensure that information relating to a Customer’s choice of Retail Electric Provider (REP) in Texas is conveyed in a timely manner to the persons who need that information; and
(d)	Ensure that electricity production and delivery are accurately accounted for among the Generation Resources and Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) and wholesale buyers and sellers, and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Distribution Service Providers (DSPs), in the ERCOT Region.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (d) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(d)	Ensure that electricity production and delivery are accurately accounted for among wholesale buyers and sellers, and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Distribution Service Providers (DSPs), in the ERCOT Region.
(2)	ERCOT is the Control Area Operator (CAO) for the ERCOT interconnection and performs all Control Area functions as defined in the Operating Guides and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) policies.
(3)	ERCOT procures Ancillary Services to ensure the reliability of the ERCOT System.
(4)	ERCOT is the central counterparty for all transactions settled by ERCOT pursuant to these Protocols and is deemed to be the sole buyer to each seller, and the sole seller to each buyer, of all energy, Ancillary Services, Reliability Unit Commitments (RUCs),  Emergency Response Service (ERS), and other products or services for which ERCOT may pay or charge a Market Participant, except for those products or services procured through bilateral transactions between Market Participants and those products or services that are self-arranged by Market Participants.
(5)	ERCOT is the PUCT-appointed Program Administrator of the Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) Program.
(6)	These Protocols are intended to implement the above-described functions.  In the exercise of its sole discretion under these Protocols, ERCOT shall act in a reasonable, nondiscriminatory manner.
(7)	Nothing in these Protocols may be construed as causing TSPs, DSPs, or Resources to transfer any control of their Facilities to ERCOT.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(7)	Nothing in these Protocols may be construed as causing TSPs, DSPs, Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), or Resources to transfer any control of their Facilities to ERCOT.
(8)	ERCOT may not profit financially from its activities as the Independent Organization in the ERCOT Region.  ERCOT may not use its discretion in the procurement of Ancillary Service capacity or deployment of energy to influence, set or control prices.
(9)	Notwithstanding any other provision in these Protocols, ERCOT shall take any action, and shall direct any Market Participant to take any action, that ERCOT deems necessary to ensure that any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the Federal Power Act (FPA), including ERCOT, does not become such a public utility.  ERCOT’s authority includes, but is not limited to, the authority to order the disconnection of any Transmission Facilities connecting the ERCOT Region to another Control Area and the authority to deny or curtail Electronic Tags (e-Tags) over any Direct Current Tie (DC Tie).  A Market Participant shall comply with any ERCOT directive provided under this section.  ERCOT shall provide notice of any action pursuant to this provision by posting an operations message to the ERCOT website and issuing a Market Notice.   
1.3	Confidentiality
(1)	This Section 1.3 applies to Protected Information or ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) disclosed by a Market Participant to ERCOT or the Independent Market Monitor (IMM), by the IMM to ERCOT or a Market Participant, or by ERCOT to a Market Participant or the IMM.  Section 1.3 also applies to specific categories of ECEII created by ERCOT, the IMM, or any Market Participant. 
(2)	As used in this Section 1.3:
(a)	“Receiving Party” means ERCOT, the IMM or any Market Participant in its capacity as the recipient of Protected Information or ECEII from one of the others.
(b)	“Disclosing Party” means ERCOT, the IMM or any Market Participant in its capacity as the provider of Protected Information or ECEII to one of the others.
(c)	“Creating Party” means ERCOT, the IMM or any Market Participant in its capacity as the creator of any ECEII specifically listed in Section 1.3.2.1, Items Considered ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information.
(d)	To disclose means to directly or indirectly disclose, reveal, distribute, report, publish, or transfer Protected Information or ECEII to any party other than to the Disclosing Party.
1.3.1	Restrictions on Protected Information
(1)	A Receiving Party may not disclose Protected Information received from a Disclosing Party to any other Entity except as specifically permitted in this Section and in these Protocols.  A Receiving Party may not knowingly use Protected Information for any illegal purpose.
1.3.1.1	Items Considered Protected Information 
(1)	Subject to the exclusions set out in Section 1.3.1.2, Items Not Considered Protected Information, and in Section 3.2.5, Publication of Resource and Load Information, “Protected Information” is information containing or revealing any of the following:
(a)	Base Points, as calculated by ERCOT.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(b)	Bids, offers, or pricing information identifiable to a specific Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) or Resource.  The Protected Information status of part of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day, as follows:
(i)	Ancillary Service Offers by Operating Hour for each Resource for all Ancillary Services submitted for the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or any Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM);
(ii)	The quantity of Ancillary Service offered by Operating Hour for each Resource for all Ancillary Service submitted for the DAM or any SASM; and
(iii)	Energy Offer Curve prices and quantities for each Settlement Interval by Resource.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire within seven days after the applicable Operating Day if required to be posted as part of paragraph (5) of Section 3.2.5 and within two days after the applicable Operating Day if required to be posted as part of paragraph (7) of Section 3.2.5; 
[NPRR1013 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1188; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1013:]
(b)	Bids, offers, or pricing information identifiable to a specific Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) or Resource.  The Protected Information status of part of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day, as follows:
(i)	Ancillary Service Offers by Operating Hour or Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) interval for each Resource for all Ancillary Services submitted for the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or Real-Time Market (RTM);
(ii)	The quantity of Ancillary Service offered by Operating Hour or SCED interval for each Resource for all Ancillary Service submitted for the DAM or RTM; and
(iii)	The prices and quantities presented in a Resource’s Energy Offer Curve or Energy Bid Curve by Operating Hour or SCED interval.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire within seven days after the applicable Operating Day if required to be posted as part of paragraph (5) of Section 3.2.5 and within two days after the applicable Operating Day if required to be posted as part of paragraph (7) of Section 3.2.5;
(c)	Status of Resources, including Outages, limitations, or scheduled or metered Resource data.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire as follows:
(i)	For each Forced Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Forced Derate of a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) that occurs during or extends into an Operating Day, the Protected Information status of the following information shall expire three days after the applicable Operating Day: 
(A)	The name and unit code of the Resource affected; 
(B)	The Resource’s fuel type;
(C)	The type of Outage or derate; 
(D)	The start date/time and the planned and actual end date/time; 
(E)	The Resource’s applicable Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating;
(F)	The available and outaged MW during the Outage or derate; and 
(G)	The entry in the “nature of work” field in the Outage Scheduler and any other information concerning the cause of the Outage or derate;
(ii)	For each Resource Outage or Forced Derate that occurs during, or that extends into, any time period in which ERCOT has declared an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA), ERCOT may immediately disclose the information identified in paragraph (i) above to a state Governmental Authority, the office of the Governor of Texas, the office of the Lieutenant Governor of Texas, or any member of the Texas Legislature, if requested; and
(iii)	For all other information, the Protected Information status shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(d)	Current Operating Plans (COPs).  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(e)	Ancillary Service Trades, Energy Trades, and Capacity Trades identifiable to a specific QSE or Resource.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 180 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(f)	Ancillary Service Schedules identifiable to a specific QSE or Resource.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day;
[NPRR1013:  Replace paragraph (f) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(f)	Ancillary Service awards identifiable to a specific QSE or Resource.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(g)	Dispatch Instructions identifiable to a specific QSE or Resource, except for Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) commitments and decommitments as provided in Section 5.5.3, Communication of RUC Commitments and Decommitments.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 180 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(h)	Raw and Adjusted Metered Load (AML) data (demand and energy) identifiable to:
(i)	A specific QSE or Load Serving Entity (LSE).  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 180 days after the applicable Operating Day; or
(ii)	A specific Customer or Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID);
(i)	Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) data identifiable to a specific QSE.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day; 
(j)	Settlement Statements and Invoices identifiable to a specific QSE.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 180 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(k)	Number of ESI IDs identifiable to a specific LSE.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 365 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(l)	Information related to generation interconnection requests, to the extent such information is not otherwise publicly available.  The Protected Information status of certain generation interconnection request information expires as provided in Section 1.3.1.4, Expiration of Protected Information Status;
(m)	Resource-specific costs, design and engineering data, including such data submitted in connection with a verifiable cost appeal;
(n)	Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) credit limits, the identity of bidders in a CRR Auction, or other bidding information identifiable to a specific CRR Account Holder.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire as follows: 
(i)	The Protected Information status of the identities of CRR bidders that become CRR Owners and the number and type of CRRs that they each own shall expire at the end of the CRR Auction in which the CRRs were first sold; and
(ii)	The Protected Information status of all other CRR information identified above in item (n) shall expire six months after the end of the year in which the CRR was effective.
(o)	Renewable Energy Credit (REC) account balances.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire three years after the REC Settlement period ends;
(p)	Credit limits identifiable to a specific QSE;
(q)	Any information that is designated as Protected Information in writing by Disclosing Party at the time the information is provided to Receiving Party except for information that is expressly designated not to be Protected Information by Section 1.3.1.2 or that, pursuant to Section 1.3.1.4, is no longer confidential; 
(r)	Any information compiled by a Market Participant on a Customer that in the normal course of a Market Participant’s business that makes possible the identification of any individual Customer by matching such information with the Customer’s name, address, account number, type of classification service, historical electricity usage, expected patterns of use, types of facilities used in providing service, individual contract terms and conditions, price, current charges, billing record, or any other information that a Customer has expressly requested not be disclosed (“Proprietary Customer Information”) unless the Customer has authorized the release for public disclosure of that information in a manner approved by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).  Information that is redacted or organized in such a way as to make it impossible to identify the Customer to whom the information relates does not constitute Proprietary Customer Information;
(s)	Any software, products of software, or other vendor information that ERCOT is required to keep confidential under its agreements;
(t)	QSE, Transmission Service Provider (TSP), and Distribution Service Provider (DSP) backup plans collected by ERCOT under the Protocols or Other Binding Documents;
[NPRR857:  Replace item (t) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(t)	QSE, Transmission Service Provider (TSP), Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO), and Distribution Service Provider (DSP) backup plans collected by ERCOT under the Protocols or Other Binding Documents;
(u)	Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedule information.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire on the date on which ERCOT files the report with the PUCT that is required by P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.192, Transmission Rates for Export from ERCOT, relating to energy imported and exported over DC Ties interconnected to the ERCOT System; 
(v)	Any Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) transaction submitted by an LSE to ERCOT or received by an LSE from ERCOT.  This paragraph does not apply to ERCOT’s compliance with: 
(i)	PUCT Substantive Rules on performance measure reporting; 
(ii)	These Protocols or Other Binding Documents; or 
(iii)	Any Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)-approved reporting requirements;
(w)	Information concerning a Mothballed Generation Resource’s probability of return to service and expected lead time for returning to service submitted pursuant to Section 3.14.1.9, Generation Resource Status Updates;
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (w) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(w)	Information concerning the probability of return to service and expected lead time for returning to service for a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed Energy Storage Resource (ESR), submitted pursuant to Section 3.14.1.9, Generation Resource/Energy Storage Resource Status Updates;
(x)	Information provided by Entities under Section 10.3.2.4, Reporting of Net Generation Capacity;
(y)	Alternative fuel reserve capability and firm gas availability information submitted pursuant to Section 6.5.9.3.1, Operating Condition Notice, Section 6.5.9.3.2, Advisory, and Section 6.5.9.3.3, Watch, and as defined by the Operating Guides;
(z)	Non-public financial information provided by a Counter-Party to ERCOT pursuant to meeting its credit qualification requirements as well as the QSE’s form of credit support; 
(aa)	ESI ID, identity of Retail Electric Provider (REP), and MWh consumption associated with transmission-level Customers that submitted notice to have their Load excluded from the Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) calculation consistent with Section 14.5.3, End-Use Customers, and subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program, or the Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) calculation consistent with subsection (j) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173 as it was effective until December 31, 2023;
[NPRR1250:  Delete paragraph (aa) above on September 1, 2025 and renumber accordingly.]
(bb)	Emergency operations plans submitted pursuant to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.53, Electric Service Emergency Operations Plans; 
(cc)	Information provided by a Counter-Party under Section 16.16.3, Verification of Risk Management Framework;
(dd)	Any data related to Load response capabilities that are self-arranged by the LSE or pursuant to a bilateral agreement between a specific LSE and its Customers, other than data either related to any service procured by ERCOT or non-LSE-specific aggregated data.  Such data includes pricing, dispatch instructions, and other proprietary information of the Load response product;
(ee)	Status of Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), including Outages, limitations, or scheduled or metered output data, except that ERCOT may disclose output data from an SOG as part of an extract or forwarded TX SET transaction provided to the LSE associated with the ESI ID of the Premise where the SOG is located.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day;
[NPRR829 and NPRR995:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (ee) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(ee)	Status of Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) and Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS), including Outages, limitations, schedules, metered output and withdrawal data, or data telemetered for use in the calculation of Real-Time Liability (RTL) as described in Section 16.11.4.3.2, Real-Time Liability Estimate, except that ERCOT may disclose metered output and withdrawal data from an SOG or SOESS as part of an extract or forwarded TX SET transaction provided to the LSE associated with the ESI ID of the Premise where the SOG is located.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day;
(ff)	Any documents or data submitted to ERCOT in connection with an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) proceeding.  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire upon ERCOT’s issuance of a Market Notice indicating the disposition of the ADR proceeding pursuant to paragraph (1) of Section 20.9, Resolution of Alternative Dispute Resolution Proceedings and Notification to Market Participants, except to the extent the information continues to qualify as Protected Information pursuant to another paragraph of this Section 1.3.1.1;
(gg)	Reasons for and future expectations of overrides to a specific Resource’s High Dispatch Limit (HDL) or Low Dispatch Limit (LDL).  The Protected Information status of this information shall expire 60 days after the applicable Operating Day; 
(hh)	Information provided to ERCOT under Section 16.18, Cybersecurity Incident Notification, except that ERCOT may disclose general information concerning a Cybersecurity Incident in a Market Notice in accordance with paragraph (5) of Section 16.18 to assist Market Participants in mitigating risk associated with a Cybersecurity Incident;
(ii)	Information disclosed in response to paragraphs (1)-(4) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination section of Section 22, Attachment K, Declaration of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination, submitted to ERCOT in accordance with Section 3.21, Submission of Declarations of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination.  The Protected Information status of Resource Outage information shall expire as provided in paragraph (1)(c) of Section 1.3.1.1;
(jj)	Information concerning weatherization activities submitted to, obtained by, or generated by ERCOT in connection with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.55, Weather Emergency Preparedness, if such information allows the identification of any Resource or Resource Entity;
(kk)	Information provided to ERCOT: 
(i)	By a QSE under paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.5, Firm Fuel Supply Service, as part of an offer to provide Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS), except that within ten Business Days of issuing FFSS awards, ERCOT may disclose the identity of all Generation Resources that were offered as primary Generation Resources or alternate Generation Resources to provide FFSS for the most recent procurement period, including prices and quantities offered; 
(ii)	By a Resource Entity under paragraph (2) of Section 8.1.1.2.1.6, Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource Qualification, Testing, Decertification, and Recertification, as part of the voluntary process for ERCOT certification of a FFSS Qualified Contract; or
(iii)	By a Resource Entity in a Force Majeure Event report required under paragraph (14) of Section 8.1.1.2.6;
(ll)	Information provided to ERCOT pursuant to Section 16.2.1.1, QSE Background Check Process, or Section 16.8.1.1, CRR Account Holder Background Check Process; and
(mm)	Information concerning coal or lignite inventory provided by a QSE under Section 3.24, Notification of Low Coal and Lignite Inventory Levels.
1.3.1.2	Items Not Considered Protected Information
(1)	Notwithstanding the definition of “Protected Information” in Section 1.3.1.1, Items Considered Protected Information, the following items are not Protected Information even if so designated:
(a)	Data comprising Load flow cases, which may include estimated peak and off-peak Demand of any Load;
(b)	Existence of Power System Stabilizers (PSSs) at each interconnected Generation Resource and PSS status (in service or out of service);
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	Existence of Power System Stabilizers (PSSs) at each interconnected Generation Resource or ESR, and PSS status (in service or out of service);
(c)	Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Agreements; 
(d)	Studies, reports and data used in ERCOT’s assessment of whether an RMR Unit satisfies ERCOT’s criteria for operational necessity to support ERCOT System reliability but only if they have been redacted to exclude Protected Information under Section 1.3.1.1; 
(e)	Status of RMR Units;
(f)	Black Start Agreements;
(g)	FFSS awards;
(h)	RMR Settlement charges and payments; 
[NPRR885:  Insert items (i) and (j) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(i)	Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Agreements;
(j)	Settlement charges and payments for MRA Service;
(i)	Within two Business Days of a request from a potential generating Facility for a full resource interconnection study, the county in which the Facility is located, Facility fuel type(s), Facility nameplate capacity, and anticipated Commercial Operations Date(s) and signed generation interconnection agreements; and
(j)	Any other information specifically designated in these Protocols or in the PUCT Substantive Rules as information to be posted to the ERCOT website or Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area that is not specified as information that is subject to the requirements of Section 1.3, Confidentiality.
(2)	Protected Information that Receiving Party is permitted or required to disclose or use under the Protocols or under an agreement between Receiving Party and a Disclosing Party does not cease to be regarded as Protected Information in all other circumstances not encompassed by these Protocols or such agreement by virtue of the permitted or required disclosure or use under these Protocols or such agreement.
1.3.1.3	Procedures for Protected Information
(1)	The Receiving Party shall adopt procedures within its organization to maintain the confidentiality of all Protected Information.  Such procedures must provide that:
(a)	The Protected Information may be disclosed to the Receiving Party’s directors, officers, employees, representatives, and agents only on a “need to know” basis;
(b)	The Receiving Party shall make its directors, officers, employees, representatives, and agents aware of Receiving Party’s obligations under this Section;
(c)	If reasonably practicable, the Receiving Party shall cause any copies of the Protected Information that it creates or maintains, whether in hard copy, electronic format, or other form, to identify the Protected Information as such; and
(d)	Before disclosing Protected Information to a representative or agent of the Receiving Party, the Receiving Party shall require a nondisclosure agreement with that representative or agent, except that a nondisclosure agreement shall not be required for the Receiving Party or Creating Party to disclose Protected Information to that party’s attorney.  That nondisclosure agreement must contain confidentiality provisions substantially similar to the terms of this Section.
1.3.1.4	Expiration of Protected Information Status
(1)	If PUCT Substantive Rules or other sections of the ERCOT Protocols require public posting (or posting to all Market Participants) of information identified as Protected Information in Section 1.3.1.1, Items Considered Protected Information, the Protected Information status of such information shall expire at the time such information is required to be posted.
(2)	ERCOT shall make the following information available on the ERCOT website in a standard reporting format:
(a)	Ancillary Service Obligation and Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility for each QSE.  This information shall be made available 180 days after the Operating Day;
[NPRR1013:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(a)	Ancillary Service Obligation for each QSE.  This information shall be made available 180 days after the Operating Day;
(b)	Complete COP data for each QSE snapshot on each hour.  This information shall be made available 60 days after the Operating Day; and 
(c) 	In a separate report from item (b) above, complete COP data for each Resource for each update to that Resource’s COP.  This information shall be made available 60 days after the Operating Day. 
[NPRR1035:  Insert paragraph (d) below upon system implementation:]
(d) 	In a separate report, DC Tie Schedules by DC Tie for each 15-minute clock interval of the Operating Day for each update to that schedule.  This information will include start time, stop time, DC Tie name, the scheduling QSE, Electronic Tag (e-Tag), and the MW flow (positive = export, negative = import).  This information shall be made available 60 days after the Operating Day.
(3)	ERCOT shall make available the AML for each QSE by LSE, by Load Zone and by Settlement Interval, from the True-Up settlement.  This data shall be made available within two Business Days of the 180 day expiration of Protected Information status.  Data for the posting will remain accessible for six months after such data are posted.
(4)	The Protected Information status of information related to generation interconnection requests expires once ERCOT receives a request from an Interconnecting Entity (IE) for a Full Interconnection Study (FIS), except that information described in item (1)(m) of Section 1.3.1.1 shall remain Protected Information.
(5)	Upon the expiration of the Protected Information status of any data specified in Section 1.3.1.1, which does not have specific posting requirements, that data must be made available to the extent required under Section 12, Market Information System.
(6)	Information that is no longer Protected Information, but not posted, including Dispatch Instructions, is available on request under the ERCOT Request for Records and Information Policy.  Requested information must be provided within a reasonable timeframe.  For Dispatch Instructions, the information may be requested with respect to a specific Resource, where applicable, and by service type and Settlement Interval or as integrated over each Settlement Interval for Dispatch Instructions with sub-Settlement Interval frequency.
1.3.2	ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information
(1)	ERCOT, the IMM, or any Market Participant may not disclose ECEII to any other Entity except as specifically permitted in this Section and in these Protocols.
(2)	For purposes of subsection (e) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.362, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Governance, ECEII constitutes Protected Information that shall be protected from public disclosure, except as otherwise provided therein and in these Protocols.
(3)	ERCOT may classify information as ECEII, regardless of whether the submitter has designated the information as ECEII or has otherwise requested ECEII status for the information, upon determining that the information is included on the list of items considered ECEII in Section 1.3.2.1, Items Considered ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information, or otherwise meets the definition of ECEII set forth in Section 2.1, Definitions.  Upon determining that information for which ECEII status has not been requested should be designated as ECEII, ERCOT shall notify the submitter.  A determination by ERCOT to classify information as ECEII is subject to review by the PUCT as set forth in Section 1.3.8, Commission Review of ERCOT Determinations Regarding Protected Information or ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information Status.
(4)	Different types of ECEII may involve different levels of security risk.  In its discretion, ERCOT may restrict Market Participant access to ECEII created or received by ERCOT that poses a high level of security risk, provided that ERCOT shall disclose such information to any Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) upon request and may disclose such information to any other Market Participant that ERCOT determines has a legitimate reliability-based need for that information, subject to the requirements and restrictions of this Section 1.3, Confidentiality.  If ERCOT determines that ECEII that is required to be posted on the ERCOT website or MIS Secure Area pursuant to these Protocols or an Other Binding Document poses a high level of security risk, ERCOT shall remove such information from the ERCOT website or MIS Secure Area notwithstanding such posting requirement, and shall promptly submit a Revision Request to remove the requirement to post such information.  If the Revision Request is withdrawn or rejected, ERCOT shall restore any information required to be posted to the MIS that had been removed pursuant to this paragraph.
(5)	A Receiving Party or Creating Party of ECEII shall adopt procedures to ensure that ECEII is securely maintained and the organization’s internal distribution of ECEII is reasonably restricted to appropriate individuals. 
(6)	A Receiving Party or Creating Party may not knowingly use ECEII for any illegal purpose.
(7)	Before disclosing ECEII to a representative or agent of the Receiving Party or Creating Party, the Receiving Party or Creating Party shall require a nondisclosure agreement with that representative or agent, except that a nondisclosure agreement shall not be required for the Receiving Party or Creating Party to disclose ECEII to that party’s attorney.
1.3.2.1	Items Considered ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information
(1)	ECEII includes but is not limited to the following, so long as such information has not been disclosed to the public through lawful means:
(a)	Detailed ERCOT System Infrastructure locational information, such as Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates;
(b)	Information that reveals that a specified contingency or fault results in instability, cascading or uncontrolled separation;
(c)	Studies and results of simulations that identify cyber and physical security vulnerabilities of ERCOT System Infrastructure;
(d)	Black Start Service (BSS) test results, individual Black Start Resource start-up procedures, cranking paths, and ERCOT and individual TSP Black Start plans;
(e)	Information contained in Section 1.B. and Exhibit 1 to the Standard Form Black Start Agreement (Section 22, Attachment D, Standard Form Black Start Agreement), except for the Hourly Standby Price, Notice, and Certification sections.  This includes, without limitation, the following information that could identify a Generation Resource as a Black Start Resource: 
(i)	Resource name;
(ii)	Resource ID;
(iii)	County where the Resource is located;
(iv)	Interconnected substation;
(v)	Resource MW capability; and 
(vi)	Tested next start units;
(f)	Emergency operations plans, including ERCOT’s emergency operations plan and any emergency operations plan submitted to ERCOT pursuant to any PUCT rule or North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standard;
(g)	Detailed ERCOT Transmission Grid maps, other than maps showing only small portions of the ERCOT Transmission Grid such as those included in Regional Planning Group (RPG) Project ERCOT Independent Review reports;
(h)	Detailed diagrams or information about connectivity between ERCOT’s and other Entities’ computer and telecommunications systems, such as internet protocol (IP) addresses, media access control (MAC) addresses, network protocols, and ports used;
(i)	Information contained in Section 23, Form S, Reporting and Attestation Regarding Purchase of Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE) and Critical Electric Grid Services (CEGS) from a Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Designated Company or LSIPA Designated Country, submitted to ERCOT that: 
(i)	Identifies Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE) and Critical Electric Grid Services (CEGS) purchased from a Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Designated Company; 
(ii)	Describes how such purchase of CEGE or CEGS relates to the operation of the grid; 
(iii)	Provides an attestation as to whether such purchase of CEGE or CEGS will result in access to or control of CEGE by an LSIPA Designated Company or LSIPA Designated Country; or 
(iv)	Identifies any measures taken to ensure that the purchase of CEGE or CEGS will not result in access to or control of CEGE by an LSIPA Designated Company or LSIPA Designated Country; and
(j)	Any information that is clearly designated as ECEII in writing by the Disclosing Party at the time the information is provided to Receiving Party, subject to the procedures set forth in paragraph (3) of Section 1.3.2.2, Submission of ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information to ERCOT.
1.3.2.2	Submission of ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information to ERCOT
(1)	ECEII submitted to ERCOT shall be clearly labeled on the cover page and pages or portions of the information or otherwise clearly identify the information for which ECEII treatment is claimed, to the extent practicable.  The submission of information labeled as ECEII constitutes a representation by the submitter that the information is ECEII as defined in these Protocols.  The submitter shall also segregate those portions of the information that contain ECEII wherever feasible.
(2)	Failure to request ECEII treatment or failure to conspicuously label or segregate ECEII information submitted to ERCOT in accordance with paragraph (1) above may result in non-ECEII treatment of the information by ERCOT and release of the information to the public.
(3)	For any submission of information asserted to be ECEII, ERCOT may, at any time following the submission, request that the submitter provide a written justification for such treatment.  The submitter shall provide such a justification, if any, within five Business Days.  The justification must explain how the information, or any portion of the information, qualifies as ECEII, as such term is defined in Section 2.1, Definitions, and must identify any law, regulation, or order that protects the information, or any portion of the information, from disclosure.  The request shall also include a statement of how long the ECEII designation should apply to the information and support for the period proposed.  ERCOT shall consider any submitted justification before determining whether the information qualifies as ECEII.  ERCOT shall not disclose or permit disclosure of any information protected from disclosure pursuant to law, regulation, or order.  ERCOT shall notify the submitter of its determination within five Business Days after receiving the submission.  ERCOT shall continue to treat as ECEII information originally claimed to be ECEII for five Business Days following the date ERCOT notified the submitter of its determination.  A determination by ERCOT not to classify information as ECEII is subject to review by the PUCT as set forth in Section 1.3.8, Commission Review of ERCOT Determinations Regarding Protected Information or ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information Status.
1.3.3	RESERVED
1.3.4	Protecting Disclosures to the PUCT, FERC, CFTC, Governmental Cybersecurity Oversight Agencies, and Other Governmental Authorities
(1)	Any disclosure that a Receiving Party makes to the PUCT must be made under applicable PUCT rules.  For any disclosure of Protected Information or ECEII to the PUCT outside the scope of subsection (e) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.362, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Governance, the Receiving Party must file that Protected Information or ECEII as confidential pursuant to subsection (d) of P.U.C. PROC. R. 22.71, Filing of Pleadings, Documents, and Other Materials.  
(2)	For any disclosure of Protected Information to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) pursuant to a request made under the CFTC’s authority in accordance with the Commodity Exchange Act and the CFTC’s regulations, ERCOT, as the Receiving Party, shall timely submit to the CFTC a written request for confidential treatment of the Protected Information in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations.
(3)	Before making a disclosure of Protected Information involving a Cybersecurity Incident to a Governmental Cybersecurity Oversight Agency or delegated entity for the purpose of ensuring the safety and/or security of the ERCOT System or ERCOT’s ability to perform functions of an independent organization under the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA), ERCOT, as the Receiving Party, will obtain adequate assurance from such Governmental Cybersecurity Oversight Agency that it will maintain the confidentiality of Protected Information.
(4)	Before making a disclosure under order of a Governmental Authority other than the PUCT, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), and the CFTC, the Receiving Party or Creating Party shall seek a protective order from such Governmental Authority to protect the confidentiality of Protected Information or ECEII.  
(5)	Before making a disclosure under order of a Governmental Authority other than the PUCT, FERC, CFTC, or a Governmental Cybersecurity Oversight Agency to ensure the safety and/or security of the ERCOT System or ERCOT’s ability to perform the functions of an independent organization under PURA, the Receiving Party shall seek a protective order from such Governmental Authority to protect the confidentiality of Protected Information. 
(6)	Nothing in this Section authorizes any disclosure of Protected Information or ECEII; this Section merely creates requirements on disclosures that are authorized under other sections of these Protocols.
1.3.5	Notice Before Permitted Disclosure
(1)	Before making any disclosure under Section 1.3.6, Exceptions, the Receiving Party shall promptly notify the Disclosing Party in writing and, with the exception of information disclosed pursuant to paragraph (3) of Section 1.3.6, shall assert confidentiality and take reasonable steps to cooperate with the Disclosing Party in seeking to protect the Protected Information or ECEII from disclosure by confidentiality agreement, protective order, aggregation of information, or other reasonable measures.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, ERCOT is not required to provide notice to the Disclosing Party of disclosures by ERCOT made under items (1)(b), (1)(h), (1)(n), or (1)(p) of Section 1.3.6.  Further, notwithstanding the foregoing, a Receiving Party is not required to provide notice to the Disclosing Party of disclosures made under item (1)(i) of Section 1.3.6.
(2)	If the Disclosing Party is not also the Creating Party, upon receipt of the notice required by paragraph (1) above, the Disclosing Party shall promptly notify the Creating Party, unless, after making reasonable efforts, the Disclosing Party is unable to identify the Creating Party.
(3)	Notwithstanding any other provision in these Protocols, for disclosures under paragraphs (1)(j) and (1)(k) of Section 1.3.6, ERCOT may satisfy its notice obligations by posting and maintaining on the ERCOT website a list of such categories in lieu of individually notifying each Disclosing Party.  When providing notice under this paragraph, ERCOT shall add the disclosed information to the posted list promptly after the disclosure. 
(4)	Notwithstanding any other provision in these Protocols, ERCOT may provide notice of any one or more categories of Protected Information and ECEII it discloses as the Receiving Party under paragraph (1)(l) of Section 1.3.6 by publicly posting and maintaining on the ERCOT website a list of such categories in lieu of individually notifying each Disclosing Party. 
(a)	Before disclosing Protected Information or ECEII under a new category that ERCOT proposes to add to the list, ERCOT will issue a Market Notice describing the new category of Protected Information or ECEII, identifying the intended date of disclosure, and providing notice that the list will be updated.
(b)	The Market Notice will be issued as far in advance of the disclosure as practicable under the circumstances or at least ten Business Days before the disclosure, whichever is shorter.
1.3.6	Exceptions 
(1)	The Receiving Party or Creating Party may, without violating Section 1.3, Confidentiality, disclose Protected Information or ECEII:
(a)	To governmental officials, Market Participants, the public, or others as required by any law, regulation, or order, or by these Protocols, but any Receiving Party or Creating Party must make reasonable efforts to restrict public access to the disclosed Protected Information or ECEII by protective order, by aggregating information, or otherwise if reasonably possible; or
(b)	If ERCOT is the Receiving Party or Creating Party and disclosure to the PUCT, Reliability Monitor or IMM of the Protected Information or ECEII is required by ERCOT pursuant to applicable Protocol, law, regulation, or order; or
(c)	For Protected Information, if the Disclosing Party has given its prior written consent to the disclosure, which consent may be given or withheld in Disclosing Party’s sole discretion; or
(d)	For Protected Information, if the Protected Information, before it is furnished to the Receiving Party, has been disclosed to the public through lawful means; or
(e)	For Protected Information, if the Protected Information, after it is furnished to the Receiving Party, is disclosed to the public other than as a result of a breach by the Receiving Party of its obligations under Section 1.3; or
(f)	If reasonably deemed by the disclosing Receiving Party to be required to be disclosed in connection with a dispute between the Receiving Party and the Disclosing Party, but the disclosing Receiving Party must make reasonable efforts to restrict public access to the disclosed Protected Information or ECEII by protective order, by aggregating information, or otherwise if reasonably possible; or
(g)	To a TSP or DSP engaged in the ERCOT Transmission Grid or Distribution System planning and operating activities, provided that the TSP or DSP has executed a confidentiality agreement with ERCOT with requirements substantially similar to those in Section 1.3.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website a list of all TSPs and DSPs that have confidentiality agreements in effect with ERCOT; or
(h)	For Protected Information, to a vendor or prospective vendor of goods and services to ERCOT or a TDSP, so long as such vendor or prospective vendor:  
(i)	Is not a Market Participant, except that ERCOT or the TDSP may disclose Protected Information to a vendor or prospective vendor that is registered solely as an Independent Market Information System Registered Entity (IMRE) to the extent appropriate for the vendor to carry out its responsibilities in such capacity or for the prospective vendor to engage in commercial discussions; and 
(ii)	Has executed a confidentiality agreement with requirements at least as restrictive as those in Section 1.3; or
(i)	For ECEII, to a vendor or prospective vendor of goods and services, so long as such vendor or prospective vendor has executed a confidentiality agreement with requirements at least as restrictive as those in Section 1.3; or
(j)	For Protected Information, to an ERCOT Research and Innovation (R&I) Partner that has agreed to perform ERCOT Research and Innovation for ERCOT, so long as the ERCOT R&I Partner: 
(i)	Is not a Market Participant, except that ERCOT may disclose Protected Information to an ERCOT R&I Partner that is registered solely as an  Independent Market Information System Registered Entity (IMRE) to the extent appropriate for the ERCOT R&I Partner to carry out its responsibilities in such capacity; and 
(ii)	Has executed a confidentiality agreement with requirements at least as restrictive as those in Section 1.3; or
(k)	For ECEII, to an ERCOT R&I Partner that has agreed to perform ERCOT Research and Innovation for ERCOT, so long as such ERCOT R&I Partner has executed a confidentiality agreement with requirements at least as restrictive as those in Section 1.3; or
(l)	To FERC, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) or the NERC Regional Entity if requested under the authority of the Federal Power Act Section 215, but any Receiving Party or Creating Party must make reasonable efforts to restrict public access to the disclosed Protected Information or ECEII.  This exception does not limit FERC’s, NERC’s, or the NERC Regional Entity’s access to Protected Information or ECEII as it existed on September 1, 2024; or
(m)	To ERCOT and its consultants, the IMM, the Reliability Monitor, and members of task forces and working groups of ERCOT, if engaged in performing analysis of abnormal system conditions, disturbances, unusual events, and abnormal system performance, or engaged in tasks involving ECEII for support of the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, task forces and working groups may not receive Ancillary Service Offer prices or other competitively sensitive price or cost information before expiration of its status as Protected Information, and each member of a task force or working group shall execute a confidentiality agreement with requirements substantially similar to those in Section 1.3, prior to receiving any Protected Information or ECEII.  Data to be disclosed under this exception to task forces and working groups must be limited to clearly defined periods surrounding the relevant conditions, events, or performance under review and must be limited in scope to information pertinent to the condition or events under review and may include the following:
(i)	QSE Ancillary Service awards and deployments, in aggregate and by type of Resource;
(ii)	Resource facility availability status, including the status of switching devices, auxiliary loads, and mechanical systems that had a material impact on Resource facility availability or an adverse impact on the transmission system operation;
(iii)	Individual Resource information including Base Points, maximum/minimum generating capability, droop setting, real power output, and reactive output;
(iv)	Resource protective device settings and status;
(v)	Data from COPs; 
(vi)	Resource Outage schedule information; and
(vii)	BSS test results and ERCOT’s Black Start plan, including individual Black Start Resource start-up procedures, cranking paths, and individual TSP Black Start plans;
(n)	To the CFTC if requested from ERCOT by the CFTC as part of an investigation or regulatory inquiry authorized pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act and the CFTC’s regulations or if required to be submitted to the CFTC pursuant to any other law, provided that ERCOT, as the Receiving Party or Creating Party, must timely submit a written request for confidential treatment in accordance with the CFTC’s regulations or other applicable law; 
(o)	To a Governmental Cybersecurity Oversight Agency regarding a Cybersecurity Incident, if ERCOT is the Receiving Party, and disclosure of Protected Information is made to a Governmental Cybersecurity Oversight Agency or delegated entity for the purpose of ensuring the safety and/or security of the ERCOT System or ERCOT’s ability to perform the functions of an independent organization under PURA; or
(p)	Incidentally as part of a tour of the ERCOT control room provided to persons determined by ERCOT to be eligible to participate in the tour.  Prior to accessing the ERCOT control room, such persons must sign a nondisclosure agreement required by ERCOT and comply with the screening and other requirements provided in a policy adopted by ERCOT security.  The policy will include a prohibition against taking photographs or recordings of Protected Information or ECEII.  This subsection does not apply to a person who is a director, officer, employee, agent, representative, contractor, or consultant of a Market Participant that is registered with ERCOT as one or more of the following registration types: Resource Entity, QSE, LSE, or CRR Account Holder. 
(2)	Protected Information may not be disclosed to other Market Participants prior to ten days following the Operating Day under review, except as permitted in paragraph (1)(n) above.
(3)	ERCOT may disclose, and may authorize a Receiving Party or Creating Party to disclose, ECEII to the public or to any person under the provisions of this paragraph, except for ECEII otherwise protected from disclosure pursuant to law, regulation, or order. 
(a)	ERCOT may propose to disclose ECEII that is not otherwise protected from disclosure pursuant to law, regulation, or order.  Any Receiving Party or Creating Party other than ERCOT may request ERCOT authorization to disclose such ECEII.
(i)	ERCOT may propose to disclose ECEII that is not otherwise protected from disclosure pursuant to law, regulation, or order if it determines that the public benefit of the proposed disclosure of ECEII outweighs the potential harm resulting from the disclosure.  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice regarding ERCOT’s intent to disclose the ECEII, subject to objection as further provided in paragraph (c) below. 
(ii)	A request by a Receiving Party or Creating Party other than ERCOT for authorization to disclose ECEII shall be submitted by e-mail to ERCOT’s General Counsel.  If the ECEII is not otherwise protected from disclosure pursuant to law, regulation, or order, and ERCOT determines that the public benefit of the proposed disclosure of ECEII outweighs the potential harm resulting from the disclosure, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice authorizing the ECEII to be disclosed, subject to objection as further provided in paragraph (c) below.  ERCOT shall make such a determination no later than five Business Days following the date it receives the request.
(b)	The Market Notice issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(i) or (ii) above shall identify the ECEII to be disclosed; the party requesting the disclosure; the public benefit justifying the proposed disclosure; the date on which the information may be disclosed, which shall be no sooner than five Business Days following the date of the Market Notice; and, if the proposed disclosure is not to the public, the persons to whom ECEII would be disclosed.  The authorization shall be effective unless a Market Participant submits an objection pursuant to paragraph (c) below.  
(c)	Any Market Participant may submit written objections to the proposed disclosure.  Such objections shall be submitted by e-mail to ERCOT’s General Counsel no later than the end of the fourth Business Day following the issuance of the Market Notice described in paragraph (b) above.  Failure to object to the proposed allowance of ECEII disclosure pursuant to this paragraph shall constitute a waiver of any such objection for all purposes.  ERCOT shall provide notice of the objection to the party requesting authorization to disclose ECEII no later than the end of the Business Day following receipt of the objection.  The party requesting authorization to disclose ECEII shall not disclose the ECEII if it has been notified of any objection pursuant to this paragraph unless and until ERCOT issues a second Market Notice authorizing disclosure, as provided in paragraph (d) below.  
(d)	If one or more objections to disclosure is submitted pursuant to paragraph (c) above, ERCOT shall issue a second Market Notice describing each such objection and stating whether the objection affects ERCOT’s determination as to the proposed disclosure of ECEII.  If ERCOT determines that the ECEII should still be disclosed notwithstanding these objections, the second Market Notice shall establish the date on which the ECEII may be disclosed, which shall be no sooner than the fifth Business Day following the issuance of the second Market Notice.  ERCOT’s determination in the second Market Notice is a final decision that may be challenged at the PUCT without using the processes described in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  If ERCOT authorizes a non-public disclosure of ECEII, the party disclosing the ECEII shall require each recipient of ECEII to enter into a nondisclosure agreement that includes the restrictions against disclosure described in Section 1.3.2, ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information, as a condition for obtaining the ECEII.
(e)	Notwithstanding anything in this Section, ERCOT may disclose ECEII to any federal, state or local government official without issuing a Market Notice if ERCOT determines that such disclosure is necessary to facilitate the government official’s public duties and that the delay associated with providing the Notice otherwise required by this paragraph (3) would impair that government official’s ability to take action to address a public emergency.  As soon as practicable, but no later than 24 hours following the disclosure:
(i)	ERCOT shall provide Notice to the Disclosing Party and all Market Participants materially impacted by the disclosure; and
(ii)	ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice describing the disclosure, unless ERCOT determines that such a Notice could jeopardize public safety or welfare, in which case no Notice is required.
(iii)	Each Disclosing Party, other than ERCOT, shall provide Notice to each Creating Party whose information has been disclosed pursuant to this paragraph (e).
(f)	Notwithstanding anything in this Section, any Receiving Party or Creating Party other than ERCOT may disclose ECEII to any federal, state or local government official without requesting prior authorization from ERCOT if the Receiving Party or Creating Party determines that such disclosure is necessary to facilitate the government official’s public duties and that the delay associated with requesting prior ERCOT authorization as otherwise required by this paragraph (3) would impair that government official’s ability to take action to address a public emergency.  
(i)	The Receiving Party or Creating Party shall provide Notice to ERCOT and all Market Participants materially impacted by the disclosure as soon as practicable, but no later than 24 hours following the disclosure.
(ii)	ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice describing the disclosure as soon as practicable, but no later than 24 hours following receipt of notice from the Receiving Party or Creating Party, unless ERCOT determines that such a Notice could jeopardize public safety or welfare, in which case no Notice is required.
1.3.7	Specific Performance 
(1)	It will be impossible or very difficult to measure in monetary terms the damages that would accrue due to any breach by Receiving Party of Section 1.3, Confidentiality, or any failure to perform any obligation contained in Section 1.3 and, for that reason, among others, a Disclosing Party affected by a disclosure or threatened disclosure is entitled to specific performance of Section 1.3.  In the event that a Disclosing Party institutes any proceeding to enforce any part of Section 1.3, the affected Receiving Party, by entering any agreement incorporating these Protocols, now waives any claim or defense that an adequate remedy at law exists for such a breach.
1.3.8	Commission Review of ERCOT Determinations Regarding Protected Information or ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information Status 
(1)	A determination by ERCOT that one or more items are or are not Protected Information or ECEII, or that the public benefit of the proposed disclosure of ECEII outweighs the potential harm resulting from the disclosure, is a final decision that may be challenged at the PUCT without using the processes described in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  Any Entity materially affected by ERCOT’s determination shall, as a condition for seeking relief at the PUCT, notify ERCOT’s General Counsel no later than 1700 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on the date five Business Days following the date ERCOT notified the submitter of its determination and shall file any complaint against ERCOT no later than 35 days following the date of the final decision, pursuant to P.U.C. PROC. R. 22.251, Review of Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Conduct.  If an Entity materially affected by ERCOT’s determination notifies ERCOT that it is challenging ERCOT’s determination and files a complaint no later than 35 days following the ERCOT determination, ERCOT shall not disclose the information until the PUCT issues a final order authorizing such release.
1.4	Operational Audit
1.4.1	Materials Subject to Audit
(1)	ERCOT’s records and documentation pertaining to its operation as the certified Independent Organization for the ERCOT Region are subject to audit in the manner prescribed herein.  The rights of Market Participants to audit ERCOT are limited to the provisions in Section 1.4, Operational Audit.
1.4.2	ERCOT Finance and Audit Committee
(1)	The ERCOT Board shall have overall audit responsibility for ERCOT.  The ERCOT Board may fulfill audit responsibilities itself or delegate them to the ERCOT Finance and Audit (F&A) Committee.  Upon delegation, the ERCOT F&A Committee shall make recommendations to the ERCOT Board or directly appoint an external independent certified public accounting firm or firms (“Appointed Firm”) to conduct certain audits.  For audits performed by an Appointed Firm, the ERCOT F&A Committee shall directly approve the initiation, scheduling, and reporting of such audits or make recommendations to the ERCOT Board.  The ERCOT F&A Committee may also direct the ERCOT Internal Audit Department to conduct certain audits.  The ERCOT F&A Committee shall approve an annual audit plan for the ERCOT Internal Audit Department.  
1.4.3	Operations Audit
1.4.3.1	Audits to Be Performed
(1)	At least annually, an Appointed Firm shall perform a System and Organization Control (SOC) audit of ERCOT regarding ERCOT’s market Settlements operations.  
(2)	The ERCOT Internal Audit Department will conduct audits of the following on a periodic basis no less than once every three years:
(a)	Compliance with ERCOT’s policies that prohibit employees from:
(i) 	Being involved in business decisions where the individual stands to gain or lose personally from the decision;  
(ii) 	Having a direct financial interest in a Market Participant; 
(iii) 	Serving in an advisory, consulting, technical or management capacity for any business organization that does significant business with ERCOT (other than through service on ERCOT committees); and 
(iv) 	Accepting any gifts or entertainment of significant value from employees or representatives of any Market Participant doing business in ERCOT.  Such gifts and entertainment shall not exceed the limits specified in ERCOT’s Code of Conduct and Ethics Corporate Standard and other applicable policies.
(b)	Whether ERCOT is operating in compliance with the confidentiality and Protected Information provisions of these Protocols; 
(c)	Verification that ERCOT, in its administration of these Protocols, is operating independently of control by any Market Participant or group of Market Participants; and
(d)	Any audit required by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).
1.4.3.2	Material Issues
(1)	The audits performed under Section 1.4.3.1, Audits to be Performed,  may also include material issues raised by ERCOT Members and/or Market Participants if:
(a)	Such issues have been presented to TAC, approved by TAC and approved by the ERCOT F&A Committee for inclusion in the audit scope; or 
(b)	Such issues are part of a random sample of complaints selected by the auditors for review, and affected Market Participants have agreed in writing to the examination of their related information in the compliance audit.
(2)	Members and Market Participants shall send any requests regarding such issues to the ERCOT TAC Chairperson designee identified on the MIS for inclusion on the TAC agenda.
1.4.4	Audit Results
(1)	Unless a longer time frame is reasonably necessary (e.g., for the market Settlements SOC audit, which is performed over a significant period of time), each audit report will be prepared and finalized no later than four months after the initiation of the audit.  Results of all audits performed pursuant to this Section shall be reported to the ERCOT F&A Committee.  These audits will be filed with the PUCT in accordance with PUCT Rules.  ERCOT may file an audit as confidential and Protected Information in order to protect Protected Information and other confidential or sensitive information therein.  Findings and recommended actions identified as a result of an audit will be reviewed by the ERCOT F&A Committee. The results of the audits required by this Section and the recommended actions to be taken by ERCOT shall be provided to ERCOT Members and Market Participants upon request to the extent these items do not contain Protected Information or other confidential or sensitive information.  
1.4.5	Availability of Records
(1)	Subject to the requirements of Section 1.4.6, Confidentiality of Information, ERCOT will provide the ERCOT Internal Audit Department, and/or the Appointed Firm and any other staff augmentation resources full and complete access to all financial books, cost statements, accounting records, and all documentation pertaining to the requirements of the specific audits being performed.  ERCOT will retain records relating to audits until the records retention requirements of ERCOT are satisfied; or until the audit issues are fully resolved, whichever is the later.  Such retention shall be a term of not less than four years and not be required for more than seven years.  This Section 1.4, Operational Audit, is not intended to require ERCOT to create any new records, reports, studies, or evaluations.
1.4.6	Confidentiality of Information
(1)	All Protected Information as defined in these Protocols obtained by the Appointed Firm or other staff augmentation resources through any audits will remain strictly confidential.  To retain control of Protected Information, ERCOT will require that each Appointed Firm and each individual staff augmentation resource  either (i) sign a confidentiality agreement with terms substantially similar to the terms of Section 1.3, Confidentiality, above before being allowed access to any ERCOT records or documentation; or (ii) observe the Appointed Firm’s internal confidentiality policies and procedures, whichever is acceptable to ERCOT’s Legal Department but is no less stringent than the terms of Section 1.3.  Audit reports and/or results provided to Market Participants or ERCOT Members shall not contain any Protected Information.
1.5	ERCOT Fees and Charges
(1)	Fees and charges to Market Participants for use of the ERCOT scheduling, settlement, registration, and other related systems and equipment are set forth in these Protocols.  The ERCOT Board may adopt additional fees and charges as reasonably necessary to cover the additional costs of such systems and equipment.  Market Participants are responsible for all such applicable fees and charges.  ERCOT shall post a schedule of ERCOT fees and charges on the ERCOT website within two Business Days of change. 
1.6	Open Access to the ERCOT Transmission Grid 
1.6.1	Overview 
(1)	Open access to the ERCOT Transmission Grid must be provided to all Eligible Transmission Service Customers by Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and ERCOT under these Protocols and the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules, Chapter 25, Substantive Rules Applicable to Electric Service Providers, Subchapter I, Transmission and Distribution.
1.6.2	Eligibility for Transmission Service 
(1)	Transmission Service is available to all Eligible Transmission Service Customers.  Energy may be transmitted and Ancillary Service may be provided on behalf of an Eligible Transmission Service Customer through the ERCOT System only through a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
1.6.3	Nature of Transmission Service 
(1)	Transmission Service allows all Eligible Transmission Service Customers to deliver and receive Energy using the Transmission Facilities of all of the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) in ERCOT under PUCT Substantive Rules.  
1.6.4	Payment for Transmission Access Service 
(1)	ERCOT may not collect Transmission Access Service fees for the TSPs’ cost of service.  ERCOT shall provide volumetric data, pursuant to Section 9, Settlement and Billing, to the TSPs so that the TSPs can calculate their Transmission access fees.  ERCOT’s collection and settlement process associated with ERCOT’s scheduling and deployment of Ancillary Service is addressed separately in these Protocols.
1.6.5	Interconnection of New or Existing Generation 
(1)	Interconnection of new Generation Resources or Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) to the ERCOT Transmission Grid must be in accordance with the Protocols, the Planning Guide, the Nodal Operating Guide and Other Binding Documents.  
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(1)	Interconnection of new Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), or Settlement Only Energy Storage Systems (SOESSs) to the ERCOT Transmission Grid must be in accordance with the Protocols, the Planning Guide, the Nodal Operating Guide and Other Binding Documents.
(2)	For existing Generation Resources and SOGs which connect to a new Point of Interconnection (POI) or which utilize more than one POI to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, any Protocol or Other Binding Document requirements applicable to Generation Resources and SOGs which are based upon the execution date of the Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA) shall be applied to the date of the first executed SGIA with the following exceptions:
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(2)	For existing Generation Resources, ESRs, SOGs, and SOESSs which connect to a new Point of Interconnection (POI) or which utilize more than one POI to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, any Protocol or Other Binding Document requirements applicable to Generation Resources, ESRs, SOGs, and SOESSs which are based upon the execution date of the Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA) shall be applied to the date of the first executed SGIA with the following exceptions:
(a)	For a new POI, existing Generation Resources and Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs) shall comply with the requirements in Section 3.15, Voltage Support, and Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.9, Voltage Ride-Through Requirements for Generation Resources, based upon the execution date of the most recent SGIA.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(a)	For a new POI, existing Generation Resources, ESRs, and Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs) shall comply with the requirements in Section 3.15, Voltage Support, and Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.9, Voltage Ride-Through Requirements for Generation Resources, based upon the execution date of the most recent SGIA.
(b)	For more than one POI, existing Generation Resources and SOTSGs shall comply with the requirements in Section 3.15 and Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.9 based upon the execution date of the SGIA relative to the POI where the Generation Resource is electrically connected.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	For more than one POI, existing Generation Resources, ESRs, and SOTSGs shall comply with the requirements in Section 3.15 and Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.9 based upon the execution date of the SGIA relative to the POI where the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOTSG is electrically connected.
(3)       When a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or Electric Cooperative (EC) transferring Load into the ERCOT System owns a generation unit currently serving the transferring Load in a non-ERCOT Control Area and seeks to interconnect the generation unit to the ERCOT Transmission Grid in conjunction with the Load transfer, the interconnection will be subject to the requirements in paragraph (1) above; however, if the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guide or Other Binding Documents set forth an alternate requirement for Generation Resources or SOGs that were installed, connected, operating, or had an SGIA executed before a specified date, then ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may apply the alternate requirement to the MOU’s or EC’s generation unit, subject to the following: 
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)       When a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or Electric Cooperative (EC) transferring Load into the ERCOT System owns a generation unit currently serving the transferring Load in a non-ERCOT Control Area and seeks to interconnect the generation unit to the ERCOT Transmission Grid in conjunction with the Load transfer, the interconnection will be subject to the requirements in paragraph (1) above; however, if the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guide or Other Binding Documents set forth an alternate requirement for Generation Resources, ESRs, or SOGs that were installed, connected, operating, or had an SGIA executed before a specified date, then ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may apply the alternate requirement to the MOU’s or EC’s generation unit, subject to the following: 
(a)	The generation unit must have been operating in the non-ERCOT Control Area on or before the date specified in the Protocol, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guide or Other Binding Document provision that sets forth the alternate requirement;
(b)	The generation unit has not undergone a modification pursuant to paragraph (1)(c) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, Applicability, subsequent to the specified date from paragraph (3) above;
(c)	The MOU or EC must submit a written request to ERCOT that identifies the alternate requirement(s) it seeks to have applied and explains why compliance with the requirement(s) applicable to new Generation Resources or SOGs is not feasible at a reasonable cost; and
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(c)	The MOU or EC must submit a written request to ERCOT that identifies the alternate requirement(s) it seeks to have applied and explains why compliance with the requirement(s) applicable to new Generation Resources, ESRs or SOGs is not feasible at a reasonable cost; and
(d)	The MOU or EC must demonstrate to ERCOT’s satisfaction through interconnection or similar studies that allowing the generation unit to comply with the alternate requirement will not create a risk to the reliability of the ERCOT System.
1.7	Rules of Construction 
(1)	Capitalized terms and acronyms used in the Protocols have the meanings set out in Section 2, Definitions and Acronyms, of these Protocols or the meanings expressly set out in another Section of the Protocols.  If a capitalized term or acronym is defined in both Section 2, and another Section of these Protocols, then the definition in that other Section controls the meaning of that term or acronym in that Section, but the definition in Section 2, controls in all other Sections of the Protocols; and
(2)	In these Protocols, unless the context clearly otherwise requires:
(a)	The singular includes the plural and vice versa;
(b)	The present tense includes the future tense, and the future tense includes the present tense;
(c)	Words importing any gender include the other gender;
(d)	The words “including,” “includes,” and “include” are deemed to be followed by the words “without limitation;”
(e)	The word “shall” denotes a duty;
(f)	The word “will” denotes a duty, unless the context denotes otherwise;
(g)	The word “must” denotes a condition precedent or subsequent;
(h)	The word “may” denotes a privilege or discretionary power;
(i)	The phrase “may not” denotes a prohibition;
(j)	Reference to a Section, Attachment, Exhibit, or Protocol means a Section, Attachment, Exhibit, or provision of these Protocols;
(k)	References to any statutes, regulations, tariffs, or these Protocols are deemed references to such statute, regulation, tariff, or Protocol as it may be amended, replaced, or restated from time to time;
(l)	Unless expressly stated otherwise, references to agreements and other contractual instruments include all subsequent amendments and other modifications to the instruments, but only to the extent that the amendments and other modifications are not prohibited by these Protocols;
(m)	References to persons or Entities include their respective successors and permitted assigns and, for governmental Entities, Entities succeeding to their respective functions and capacities;
(n)	References to “writing” include printing, typing, lithography, and other means of reproducing words in a tangible visible form;
(o)	Any reference to a day, week, month, or year is to a calendar day, week, month, or year unless otherwise noted; and
(p)	Any reference to time is to Central Prevailing Time; the 24-hour clock is used unless otherwise noted.
(q)	Any reference to dollars is U.S. currency dollars unless otherwise noted.
(r)	All Settlement calculations are in dollars (USD), unless otherwise noted.
(s)	Any reference to energy is electrical energy, unless otherwise noted.
(3)	These provisions apply to giving notice under the Protocols:

(a)	Where these Protocols require an Entity to provide, send, or deliver notice, or to notify another Entity, such notice shall be in writing unless otherwise specified.  Where these Protocols do not specify the method by which written notice should be sent, then the notice may be sent by: 

(i)	Hand-delivery:

(ii)	Electronic mail;

(iii)	Facsimile transmission;

(iv)	Overnight delivery service (e.g., Federal Express, DHL or similar service) that requires a signed receipt;

(v)	The Messaging System, Market Notice, or other electronic means provided for by these Protocols; or

(vi)	U.S. Mail, first class postage prepaid, registered (or certified) mail, return receipt requested, properly addressed.

(b)	Notice by facsimile, electronic mail, the Messaging System, Market Notice, or other electronic means provided for by these Protocols is considered received when sent unless transmitted after 5:00 p.m. local time of the recipient or on a non-Business Day, in which case it is considered received one Business Day after it was sent. 

(c)	Notice by overnight delivery service that requires a signed receipt is considered received on the day that it was received.  

(d)	Notice by U.S. Mail is considered received three days after the date it was deposited in the U.S. Mail, first class postage prepaid, registered (or certified) mail, return receipt requested, properly addressed.

(e)	If ERCOT is providing notice to a Market Participant as required by the Protocols, then such notice shall be provided to the Market Participant’s Authorized Representative and backup Authorized Representative, in addition to any other person who is required to receive notice under the Protocols.  If ERCOT is providing notice to a Market Participant regarding a breach or default under an agreement contained in the Protocols, then such notice shall be provided to the Market Participant’s contact for notice listed in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement.  If a Market Participant is providing notice to ERCOT as required by the Protocols or as provided under an agreement contained in the Protocols, then such notice shall be provided to ERCOT’s contact for notice listed in Section 22, Attachment A.  

(f)	When the Protocols require a notice to be in writing, sending it by electronic mail, the Messaging System, Market Notice, or other electronic means satisfies the requirement that the notice be in writing. 
(4)	Nothing in these Protocols may be construed to grant any jurisdiction or authority to NERC or FERC that they do not otherwise have. 
1.8	Effective Date 
(1)	Provisions of these Protocols approved through the process set forth in Section 21, Revision Request Process, but not implemented until a specified later date or in accordance with other specified prerequisites to implementation, must be set forth, and the approved but not yet implemented provision must be set forth in boxes within the Protocols.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 2:  Definitions and Acronyms 

April 1, 2025


____________________________________________________________________________________________
 
2	DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS
The list of acronyms is at the end of this Definitions Section.
2.1	DEFINITIONS
Definitions are supplied for terms used in more than one Section of the Protocols.  If a term is used in only one Section, it is defined there at its earliest usage.
LINKS TO DEFINITIONS:
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z;
List of Acronyms

A
[Back to Top]
Acquisition Transfer
The process used to transfer Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) from the current Competitive Retailer (CR) to another CR(s) as a result of an acquisition pursuant to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.493, Acquisition and Transfer of Customers from one Retail Electric Provider to Another.
Acquisition Transfer Decision
Parameters associated with an Acquisition Transfer event that dictate the parties involved and the desired Acquisition Transfer Effective Date.  Acquisition Transfer Decision parameters include designation of the Losing CR, the Gaining CR, the preliminary list of transitioning ESI IDs, the method of transfer, and the desired Acquisition Transfer Effective Date.  The desired Acquisition Transfer Effective Date may be modified by agreement among Market Participants based on the volume of transitioning ESI IDs and the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider’s (TDSP’s) capacity to read meters and process transactions involving manual intervention.
Acquisition Transfer Effective Date
The date on which the Acquisition Transfer of ESI IDs from the Losing CR to the Gaining CR takes place.  This is the date on which the meter read is taken and is used in Acquisition Transfer transactions.
Adjusted Metered Load (AML)
Retail Load usage data that has been adjusted for Unaccounted for Energy (UFE), Transmission Losses, Distribution Losses, and Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports.
Adjusted Static Models
Load Profiles that are generated from statistical models that are based on static historical Load data, and adjusted for conditions of the day (e.g., weather, Season, etc.).
Adjustment Period
For each Operating Hour, the time between 1800 in the Day-Ahead up to the start of the hour before that Operating Hour.
Advance Action Notice (AAN)
A type of Operating Condition Notice (OCN) that identifies a possible future Emergency Condition and describes future action ERCOT expects to take to address that condition unless the need for ERCOT action is alleviated by Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) and/or Transmission Service Provider (TSP) actions or by other system developments.
Advanced Meter
Any new or appropriately retrofitted meter that functions as part of a system that includes such meters and the associated hardware, software, and communications devices, that collects time-differentiated energy usage, and that is deployed pursuant to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.130, Advanced Metering.
Advanced Metering System (AMS)
A system, including Advanced Meters and the associated hardware, software, and communications devices, that collects time-differentiated energy usage and is deployed pursuant to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.130, Advanced Metering.
Advisory
The second of three levels of communication issued by ERCOT in anticipation of a possible Emergency Condition.
Affiliate
(1)	An Entity that directly or indirectly owns or holds at least 5% of the voting securities of a Market Participant; or
(2)	An Entity in a chain of successive ownership of at least 5% of the voting securities of a Market Participant; or
(3)	An Entity that has at least 5% of its voting securities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a Market Participant; or
(4)	An Entity that has at least 5% of its voting securities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by an Entity who directly or indirectly owns or controls at least 5% of the voting securities of a Market Participant or an Entity in a chain of successive ownership of at least 5% of the voting securities of a Market Participant; or
(5)	A person who is an officer or director of a Market Participant or of a corporation in a chain of successive ownership of at least 5% of the voting securities of a Market Participant.
(6)	Notwithstanding any part of this definition, any Entity that would be considered an Affiliate due to its participation in a chain of successive ownership of a Market Participant shall not for that reason be considered an Affiliate if: 
(a)	It does not own 50% or more of the voting securities of any other Entity in the chain; or 
(b)	Its participation in the chain is only as a successive owner of an Entity in the chain that does not own 50% or more of the voting securities of another Entity in that chain. 
(7)	Provided that the Entity holding ownership or control of voting securities in a Market Participant does not hold such ownership or control for the purpose of exercising or influencing control of that Market Participant, then for the purposes of that relationship, the term "Entity," as used in this definition, shall not include:
(a)	A broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. § 78;
(b)	A bank or insurance company as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. § 78;
(c)	An investment adviser registered under state law or the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. §§ 80b1-80b21; 
(d)	An investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. §§ 80a1-80a64; or
(e)	An employee benefit plan, pension fund, endowment fund, or other similar entity.
(8)	ERCOT may request either of the following as conclusive evidence of the purpose required in paragraph (7) above:
(a)	An affidavit attesting to that purpose if such affidavit is signed by the Entity owning the securities; or 
(b)	A report reflecting that purpose filed by the owning entity with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(9)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.1, “Affiliate” includes any Entity determined by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) to be an Affiliate.
(10)	The Affiliate of a Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Designated Company shall be determined under the definition of “LSIPA Affiliate.”
Aggregate Generation Resource (AGR) (see Resource Attribute)
Aggregate Load Resource (ALR) (see Resource)
Agreement
A signed written agreement between ERCOT and a Market Participant using one of the standard form agreements in Section 22, Attachments, including those agreements containing changes to the standard form, which changes have been approved by the ERCOT Board.
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
Procedures, outlined in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds, for settling disputes by means other than litigation.
Ancillary Service
A service necessary to support the transmission of energy to Loads while maintaining reliable operation of the Transmission Service Provider’s (TSP’s) transmission system using Good Utility Practice. 
[NPRR857:  Replace the above definition “Ancillary Service” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Ancillary Service
A service necessary to support the transmission of energy to Loads while maintaining reliable operation of the transmission system using Good Utility Practice.
Ancillary Service Assignment  
Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility assigned to an On-Line Resource pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.9.3.3, Watch.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Ancillary Service Assignment” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Ancillary Service Capacity Monitor
A set of processes described in Section 8.1.1.3, Ancillary Service Capacity Compliance Criteria, to determine the Real-Time capability of Resources to provide Ancillary Service.
[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Ancillary Service Demand Curve (ASDC)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Ancillary Service Demand Curve (ASDC)
A curve that reflects the value of each Ancillary Service product by price/quantity pairs for each hour of the Operating Day.

[NPRR1204:  Insert the following definition “Ancillary Service Deployment Factors” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Ancillary Service Deployment Factors
Hourly parameters for each Ancillary Service type between 0 and 1 (or 0% to 100%) that indicate an assumed Ancillary Service deployment and may be based on system conditions such as forecasts for Demand and Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs).  These factors are used in the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) studies.

[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Ancillary Service Imbalance” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Ancillary Service Imbalance 
The difference between the amount of an Ancillary Service cleared in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and through trades and the amount of that Ancillary Service awarded in the Real-Time Market (RTM).
Ancillary Service Obligation
For each Ancillary Service, a Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) ERCOT-allocated share of total ERCOT System needs for that Ancillary Service.
Ancillary Service Offer
An offer to supply Ancillary Service capacity in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or a Supplemental Ancillary Service Market (SASM).
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Ancillary Service Offer” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Ancillary Service Offer
An offer to supply Ancillary Service capacity in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or Real-Time Market (RTM).
Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer
A Resource-specific offer to supply Ancillary Service capacity in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or Real-Time Market (RTM).
Ancillary Service Only Offer
An offer to sell Ancillary Service capacity in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) that is not associated with a specific Resource.
Ancillary Service Plan
A plan produced by ERCOT, as described in Section 4.2.1, Ancillary Service Plan and Ancillary Service Obligation, which identifies the types and amount of Ancillary Service necessary for each hour of the Operating Day.
[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Ancillary Service Position” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Ancillary Service Position
The net amount of Ancillary Service capacity to which a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) has financially committed in the ERCOT market, as described in Section 5.4.1, Ancillary Service Positions.
Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility
The MW of an Ancillary Service that each Resource is obligated to provide in Real-Time rounded to the nearest MW. 
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Ancillary Service Schedule
The MW of each Ancillary Service that each Resource is providing in Real-Time and the MW of each Ancillary Service for each Resource for each hour in the Current Operating Plan (COP). 
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Ancillary Service Schedule” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility 
The net amount of Ancillary Service capacity that a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) is obligated to deliver to ERCOT, by hour and service type.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Ancillary Service Trade
A QSE-to-QSE transaction that transfers an obligation to provide Ancillary Service capacity between a buyer and a seller.
Applicable Legal Authority (ALA)
A Texas or federal law, rule, regulation, or applicable ruling of the PUCT or any other regulatory authority having jurisdiction, an order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or a rule, regulation, applicable ruling, procedure, protocol, guide or guideline of the Independent Organization, or any Entity authorized by the Independent Organization to perform registration or settlement functions.
Area Control Error (ACE)
A calculation of the MW correction needed to control the actual system frequency to the scheduled system frequency.
Authorized Representative
The person(s) designated by an Entity during the registration process in Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, who is responsible for authorizing all registration information required by ERCOT Protocols and ERCOT business processes, including any changes in the future, and will be the contact person(s) between the registered Entity and ERCOT for all business matters requiring authorization by ERCOT.
Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR)  
A device on a Generation Resource or a control system at the Facility of a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) used to automatically control the voltage to an established Voltage Set Point.
Availability Plan
An hourly representation of availability of Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units or an hourly representation of the capability of Black Start Resources as submitted to ERCOT by 0600 in the Day-Ahead by Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) representing RMR Units or Black Start Resources.  An hourly representation of availability of Firm Fuel Supply Service Resources (FFSSRs) as submitted to ERCOT 14 days prior to the Operating Day by QSEs representing FFSSRs.  QSEs must update the Availability Plan to reflect current operating conditions within 60 minutes after identifying the change in availability of the Resource.
[NPRR885:  Replace the above definition “Availability Plan” with the following upon system implementation:]
Availability Plan
An hourly representation of availability of Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units, Must-Run Alternatives (MRAs), or an hourly representation of the capability of Black Start Resources as submitted to ERCOT by 0600 in the Day-Ahead by Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) representing RMR Units, MRAs, or Black Start Resources.  An hourly representation of availability of Firm Fuel Supply Service Resources (FFSSRs) as submitted to ERCOT 14 days prior to the Operating Day by QSEs representing FFSSRs.  QSEs must update the Availability Plan to reflect current operating conditions within 60 minutes after identifying the change in availability of the Resource.
B 
[Back to Top]
Bank Business Day (see Business Day)
Bankrupt 
The condition of an Entity that:
(a)	Files a petition or otherwise commences a proceeding under any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar law, or has any such petition filed or commenced against it;
(b)	Makes an assignment or any general arrangement for the benefit of creditors;
(c)	Has a liquidator, administrator, receiver, trustee, conservator, or similar official appointed with respect to it or any substantial portion of its property or assets; or
(d)	Is generally unable to pay its debts as they fall due.
Base Point
The MW output level for a Resource produced by the Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) process.
Black Start Capable Resource
A physical Resource that can start without support of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and that a Resource Entity believes can meet the Black Start capability tests in Section 8.1.1.2.1.5, System Black Start Capability Qualification and Testing, excluding the 72-hour Back-up Fuel requirement in paragraph (1)(g).
Black Start Resource (see Resource Attribute)
Black Start Service (BSS)
An Ancillary Service provided by a Resource able to start without support of the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
Black Start Service (BSS) Back-up Fuel
Fuel that is stored on site at the location of a Black Start Resource and that is available at all times and contracted with ERCOT for the purpose of powering the Resource when following ERCOT or the local Transmission Operator (TO) instruction to start without support of the ERCOT Transmission Grid in response to a Blackout or Partial Blackout.
Blackout
A condition in which frequency for the entire ERCOT System has dropped to zero and Generation Resources are no longer serving Load.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Blackout” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Blackout
A condition in which frequency for the entire ERCOT System has dropped to zero and Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) are no longer serving Load.
Partial Blackout
A condition in which an uncontrolled separation of a portion of the ERCOT System occurs and frequency for that portion has dropped to zero and Generation Resources within that portion are no longer serving Load and restoration is dependent on either internal Black Start Plans or assistance for restoration is needed from neighboring Transmission Operator(s) (TO(s)) within the ERCOT System which requires ERCOT coordination.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Partial Blackout” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Partial Blackout
A condition in which an uncontrolled separation of a portion of the ERCOT System occurs and frequency for that portion has dropped to zero and Generation Resources and ESRs within that portion are no longer serving Load and restoration is dependent on either internal Black Start Plans or assistance for restoration is needed from neighboring Transmission Operator(s) (TO(s)) within the ERCOT System which requires ERCOT coordination.
Block Load Transfer (BLT)
A transfer system that isolates a group of Loads from the Control Area in which they normally are served and then connects them to another Control Area.  Such transfer systems involve either transferring Loads normally in the ERCOT Control Area to a non-ERCOT Control Area or transferring Loads normally in non-ERCOT Control Areas to the ERCOT Control Area.
Bus Load Forecast
A set of processes used by ERCOT to determine a forecast of the Load at each Electrical Bus in the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
Business Day
Monday through Friday, excluding observed holidays listed below:
(a)	New Year’s Day;
(b)	Martin Luther King, Jr. Day;
(c)	Memorial Day;
(d)	Independence Day;
(e)	Labor Day;
(f)	Thanksgiving Thursday and Friday; and
(g)	Two days at Christmas, as designated from time to time by the ERCOT CEO.	
Bank Business Day
Any day during which the United States Federal Reserve Bank of New York is open for normal business activity.
Retail Business Day
Same as a Business Day, except in the case of retail transactions processed by a TSP or Distribution Service Provider (DSP), Competitive Retailers (CRs) shall substitute the TSP or DSP holidays for ERCOT holidays when determining the time available to the TSP or DSP to process the transaction.  For additional important information related to Retail Business Days, please refer to the Retail Market Guide.
Business Hours
0800 to 1700 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on Business Days.
C
[Back to Top]
Capacity Trade 
A QSE-to-QSE financial transaction that transfers responsibility to supply capacity between a buyer and a seller at a Settlement Point.
Cash Collateral
A Counter-Party’s cash funds held by ERCOT to satisfy ERCOT creditworthiness requirements, as described in paragraph (c) of Section 16.11.3, Alternative Means of Satisfying ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements.
Central Prevailing Time (CPT)
Either Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Time, in effect in Austin, Texas. 
Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE)
The government agency in Mexico charged with the responsibility of operating the Mexican national electricity grid.
Commercial Operations Date
The date on which an Interconnecting Entity (IE) or a Resource Entity expects that construction and trial operation of a Resource will be completed and the Resource is expected to complete the Resource interconnection process and be approved for participation in ERCOT market operations.
Common Information Model (CIM)
A standard way to communicate information about a transmission system.  The CIM is used to describe the ERCOT transmission system topology consisting of Transmission Elements, including all the parameters needed to describe the Transmission Elements and how they interrelate to one another.  The CIM that ERCOT and the TSP use must conform to the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) standards for CIMs.
[NPRR857:  Replace the above definition “Common Information Model (CIM)” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Common Information Model (CIM)
A standard way to communicate information about a transmission system.  The CIM is used to describe the ERCOT transmission system topology consisting of Transmission Elements, including all the parameters needed to describe the Transmission Elements and how they interrelate to one another.  The CIM that ERCOT and Market Participants use must conform to the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) standards for CIMs.
Competitive Constraint
A contingency and limiting Transmission Element pair or group of Transmission Elements associated with a Generic Transmission Constraint (GTC) that is determined to be competitive using the process defined in Section 3.19, Constraint Competitiveness Tests.
Competitive Retailer (CR)
A Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or an Electric Cooperative (EC) that offers Customer Choice and sells electric energy at retail in the restructured electric power market in Texas, or a Retail Electric Provider (REP).
Gaining Competitive Retailer (CR)
CR that becomes the REP of record upon the processing of the transition of an Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) from one REP of record to another.  This includes the CR identified in the initiating Mass Transition Decision or Acquisition Transfer Decision that is to become the REP of record as of the Mass Transition Effective Date or Acquisition Transfer Effective Date for a transitioned Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) following the Mass Transition or Acquisition Transfer.
Losing Competitive Retailer (CR)
CR that is removed as the REP of record upon the processing of the transition of an ESI ID from one REP of record to another.  This includes the CR identified in the initiating Mass Transition Decision or Acquisition Transfer Decision that is to be removed as the REP of record upon the processing of a Mass Transition or Acquisition Transfer transaction.
Competitive Retailer (CR) of Record
The CR assigned to the Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) in ERCOT’s database.  There can be no more than one CR of Record assigned to an ESI ID for any given time period.
Compliance Period
A calendar year beginning January 1 and ending December 31 in which Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) are required of a Retail Entity.
Compliance Premium
A payment awarded by the Program Administrator in conjunction with a Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC) that is generated by a renewable energy source that meets the criteria of subsection (e) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  For the purpose of the Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) requirements, one Compliance Premium is equal to one SREC.
[NPRR1250:  Replace the definition “Compliance Premium” above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
Compliance Premium
A payment awarded by the Program Administrator in conjunction with a Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC) that is generated by a renewable energy source that meets the criteria of subsection (e) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  Note that Compliance Premiums will not be awarded after December 31, 2024, and all unused Compliance Premiums will expire by December 31, 2027.
Conductor/Transformer 2-Hour Rating (see Rating)
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR)
A financial instrument that entitles the holder to be charged or to receive compensation (i.e., congestion rent), depending on the instrument, when the ERCOT Transmission Grid is congested in the DAM or in Real-Time. 
Flowgate Right (FGR) 
A type of CRR that entitles the holder to receive compensation and is evaluated in each CRR Auction and DAM as the positive power flows represented by the quantity of the CRR bid or offer (MW) on a flowgate (i.e., predefined directional network element or a predefined bundle of directional network elements).
Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation 
A type of CRR that entitles the holder to be charged or to receive compensation and is evaluated in each CRR Auction and DAM as the positive and negative power flows on all directional network elements created by the injection and withdrawal at the specified source and sink points of the quantity represented by the CRR bid or offer (MW). 
Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation with Links to an Option
A type of CRR that entitles a Non-Opt-In Entity’s (NOIE’s) PTP Obligation bought in the DAM to be reflective of the NOIE’s PTP Option.  To qualify as a PTP Obligation of this type, the source and sink pairs on both the NOIE’s PTP Obligation and the NOIE’s PTP Option shall be the same, and the MWs of the NOIE’s PTP Obligations shall be less than or equal to the number of MWs of the NOIE’s PTP Option.  Qualified PTP Obligations with Links to an Option shall be settled as if they were a PTP Option.
Point-to-Point (PTP) Option
A type of CRR that is evaluated in each CRR Auction and DAM as the positive power flows on all directional network elements created by the injection and withdrawal at the specified source and sink points in the quantity represented by the CRR bid or offer (MW), excluding all negative flows on all directional network elements.  A PTP Option entitles the holder to receive compensation equal to the positive energy price difference between the sink and the source Settlement Point Prices.  A PTP Option with Refund is evaluated in the same manner and compensated as described in Section 7.4.2, PCRR Allocations and Nominations. 
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder
An Entity that is qualified to become the owner of record of CRRs and is registered as a CRR Account Holder with ERCOT.
Participating Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder
For a given CRR Auction, a CRR Account Holder who either owns one or more CRRs effective during the Operating Days covered by the CRR Auction, or whose Counter-Party has a non-zero credit limit available and allocated to the CRR Auction as described in paragraph (1) of Section 7.5.5.3, Auction Process.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction
A periodic auction by ERCOT that allows eligible CRR Account Holders to buy and sell CRRs.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction Capacity
The fraction of the network capacity that is offered for sale in a given CRR Auction.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) First Offering
The CRR Auction, which is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, in which a series of calendar months of CRRs is offered for sale for the first time.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Long-Term Auction Sequence
A series of six CRR Auctions held consecutively, each of which entails the sale of a six-month window of CRRs.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Monthly Auction
The CRR Auction in which a calendar month is offered for sale for the last time.  This CRR Auction may, but is not required to, be conducted on the same dates as a CRR Auction that is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Network Model
A model of ERCOT network topology to be used in conducting a CRR Auction.  It must be based on, but is not the same as, the Updated Network Model, as detailed in Section 3.10.3, CRR Network Model.
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Owner
A CRR Account Holder that owns one or more CRRs.
Constant Frequency Control (CFC)
An operating mode of an Automatic Generation Control (AGC) system.  While in CFC, an AGC system will monitor only the frequency error to determine Resource adjustments needed to balance sources and obligations.  CFC controls generation to increase or decrease by the amount of frequency deviation multiplied by the bias. 
Constraint Management Plan (CMP)
A set of pre-defined manual transmission system actions, or automatic transmission system actions that do not constitute a Remedial Action Scheme (RAS), which are executed in response to system conditions to prevent or to resolve one or more thermal or non-thermal transmission security violations or to optimize the transmission system.  CMPs may be developed in cases where studies indicate economic dispatch alone may be unable to resolve a transmission security violation or in response to Real-Time conditions where Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) is unable to resolve a transmission security violation.  ERCOT will employ CMPs to facilitate the market use of the ERCOT Transmission Grid, while maintaining system security and reliability in accordance with the Protocols, Operating Guides and North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.  CMPs are intended to supplement, not to replace, the use of SCED for prevention or resolution of one or more thermal or non-thermal transmission security violations.  CMPs include, but are not limited to the following:
[NPRR1198:  Replace the above definition “Constraint Management Plan (CMP)” with the following upon system implementation:]
Constraint Management Plan (CMP)
A set of pre-defined manual transmission system actions, or automatic transmission system actions that do not constitute a Remedial Action Scheme (RAS), which are executed in response to system conditions to prevent or to resolve one or more thermal or non-thermal transmission security violations or to optimize the transmission system.  ERCOT will employ CMPs to maintain system security and reliability in accordance with the Protocols, Nodal Operating Guides and North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.  CMPs include, but are not limited to the following:
Automatic Mitigation Plan (AMP) 
A set of pre-defined automatic actions to execute post-contingency to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating, excluding any set of automatic actions that constitute a Remedial Action Scheme (RAS).  AMPs shall only include schemes which switch series reactors by monitoring quantities that are solely located at the same substation as the switched device.  AMPs shall not include adjusting or tripping generation or Load shedding and shall not be implemented on Interconnection Reliability Operating Limits (IROLs). 
[NPRR1198:  Insert the definition “Extended Action Plan (EAP)” below upon system implementation:]
Extended Action Plan (EAP)
A set of pre-defined manual actions to execute pre-contingency and to remain in place for a pre-defined period of time to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating with restoration of normal operating conditions within two hours.  EAPs may be proposed by any Market Participant or developed by ERCOT and can be utilized for reliability or economic reasons.  EAPs proposed for reliability reasons may have thermal constraints that do not have a Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) solution.  EAPs proposed for economic reasons may have thermal constraints that are resolvable by SCED but result in high congestion costs and meet the criteria outlined in Nodal Operating Guide Section 11, Constraint Management Plans and Remedial Action Schemes.  An EAP may include transmission switching and does not include Load shedding.  EAPs shall be managed via the Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR) and Outage scheduling processes as described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 11.8.1, Extended Action Plan (EAP) Process.
Mitigation Plan
A set of pre-defined manual actions to execute post-contingency to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating with restoration of normal operating conditions within two hours.  A Mitigation Plan must be implementable and may include transmission switching and Load shedding.  Mitigation Plans shall not be used to manage constraints in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).
Pre-Contingency Action Plan (PCAP)
A set of pre-defined manual actions to execute pre-contingency to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating with restoration of normal operating conditions within two hours.  A PCAP may include transmission switching and does not include Load shedding.  A PCAP may also be implemented for the duration of an Outage and shall be included in the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable.  
Remedial Action Plan (RAP)
A set of pre-defined manual actions to execute post-contingency to address voltage issues or in order to reduce loading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating within 15 minutes.  RAPs are sufficiently dependable to assume they can be executed without loss of reliability to the interconnected network, with restoration of normal operating conditions and below Normal Rating within two hours as defined in the Network Operations Model.  RAPs may be relied upon in allowing additional use of the transmission system in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  RAPs shall not include generation re-Dispatch or Load shedding.
Temporary Outage Action Plan (TOAP)
A temporary set of pre-defined manual actions to execute post-contingency, during a specified Transmission Facility or Resource Outage, in order to address voltage issues or reduce overloading on one or more given, monitored Transmission Facilities to below their Emergency Rating with restoration of normal operating conditions within two hours.  A TOAP must be implementable and may include transmission switching and/or Load shedding.  TOAPs shall not be used to manage constraints in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).
Continuous Service Agreement (CSA)
An arrangement between the owner or controller of a leased Premise and a CR wherein the CR provides service to the leased Premise between tenants so that the Premise does not experience discontinuation of electric service during vacancy.
Control Area
An electrical system, bound by interconnect (tie line) metering and telemetry, that continuously regulates, through automatic Resource control, its Resource(s) and interchange schedules to match its system Load and frequency schedule.
Control Area Operator (CAO)
An individual or set of individuals responsible for monitoring and controlling operation of a Control Area.
Controllable Load Resource (CLR) (see Resource)
Controllable Load Resource (CLR) Desired Load
The MW consumption for a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) produced by summing its Scheduled Power Consumption and Ancillary Service deployments.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Controllable Load Resource (CLR) Desired Load” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Cost Allocation Zone
One of the four zones in effect during the 2003 ERCOT market as they are changed pursuant to Section 3.4.2, Load Zone Modifications.  A Cost Allocation Zone may be used by ERCOT to uplift certain costs to a QSE’s Load regardless of NOIE Load Zone.
Counter-Party
A single Entity that is a QSE and/or a CRR Account Holder.  A Counter-Party includes all registrations as a QSE, all subordinate QSEs, and all CRR Account Holders by the same Entity.
Credible Single Contingency
(1)	The Forced Outage of any single Transmission Facility or, during a single fault, the Forced Outage of multiple Transmission Facilities (single fault multiple element);
(2)	The Forced Outage of a double-circuit transmission line in excess of 0.5 miles in length;
(3)	The Forced Outage of any single Generation Resource, and in the case of a Combined Cycle Train, the Forced Outage of the combustion turbine and the steam turbine if they cannot operate separately as provided in the Resource registration process; or
(4)	For transmission planning purposes, contingencies are defined in the Planning Guide.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Credible Single Contingency” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Credible Single Contingency
(1)	The Forced Outage of any single Transmission Facility or, during a single fault, the Forced Outage of multiple Transmission Facilities (single fault multiple element);
(2)	The Forced Outage of a double-circuit transmission line in excess of 0.5 miles in length;
(3)	The Forced Outage of any single Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR), and in the case of a Combined Cycle Train, the Forced Outage of the combustion turbine and the steam turbine if they cannot operate separately as provided in the Resource registration process; or
(4)	For transmission planning purposes, contingencies are defined in the Planning Guide.
Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE)
(1)	Equipment accessible by means of routable connectivity that, as installed, can be used to gain remote access to or control of ERCOT System Infrastructure, the ERCOT Wide Area Network (WAN), or Market Information System (MIS), if such equipment, if destroyed, degraded, misused, or otherwise rendered unavailable would, within 15 minutes or less of its mis-operation, non-operation, or required operation, adversely impact the reliable operation of ERCOT System Infrastructure.  Redundancy of affected facilities, systems, and equipment shall not be considered when determining adverse impact. 
(2)	For Load Resources, this definition only applies to equipment used to send and receive ERCOT telemetry and ERCOT Dispatch Instructions.  
(3)	For purposes of this definition, “reliable operation of ERCOT System Infrastructure” means operating elements of ERCOT System Infrastructure within equipment and electric system thermal, voltage, and stability limits so that instability, uncontrolled separation, or cascading failures of ERCOT System Infrastructure will not occur as a result of a sudden disturbance, including a cybersecurity incident, or unanticipated failure of system elements. 
Critical Electric Grid Services (CEGS)
Services and software provided by a vendor for the operation, control, monitoring, maintenance, or use of Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE), excluding access specifically allowed by the purchaser for product warranty or support purposes.
Critical Load
A Load that is designated as, or has a pending application to be designated as, a Critical Load Public Safety Customer, Critical Load Industrial Customer, Chronic Condition Residential Customer, or Critical Care Residential Customer pursuant to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.497, Critical Load Industrial Customers, Critical Load Public Safety Customers, Critical Care Residential Customers, and Chronic Condition Residential Customers, or as a critical load under any other category identified under Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Rules.    
Current Operating Plan (COP)
A plan by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) reflecting anticipated operating conditions for each of the Resources that it represents for each hour in the next seven Operating Days, including Resource operational data, Resource Status, and Ancillary Service Schedule. 
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Current Operating Plan (COP)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Current Operating Plan (COP)
A plan by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) reflecting anticipated operating conditions for each of the Resources that it represents for each hour in the next seven Operating Days, including Resource operational data, Resource Status, and Ancillary Service capabilities.
Current Operating Plan (COP) and Trades Snapshot 
A record of a QSE’s Capacity Trades, Energy Trades, and most recent COP.  
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Current Operating Plan (COP) and Trades Snapshot” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Customer
An Entity that purchases electricity for its consumption. 
Customer Choice
The freedom of a retail Customer to purchase electric services, either individually or on an aggregated basis with other retail Customers, from the provider or providers of the Customer’s choice and to choose among various fuel types, energy efficiency programs, and renewable power suppliers.
Customer Registration Database
The database maintained by the registration agent containing information identifying each Premise, including current and previous CRs serving the Premise. 
Cybersecurity Contact
The person, desk, or hotline designated by an Entity, as set forth in Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, that is the primary point of contact for communications between the registered Entity and ERCOT with respect to Cybersecurity Incidents.  A Market Participant may designate a temporary Cybersecurity Contact for a particular Cybersecurity Incident pursuant to Section 16.19, Cybersecurity Incident Notification.
Cybersecurity Incident
A malicious or suspicious act that compromises or disrupts a computer network or system that could foreseeably jeopardize the reliability or integrity of the ERCOT System or ERCOT’s ability to perform the functions of an independent organization under the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA).
D
[Back to Top]
Data Agent-Only Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) (see Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE))
Data Aggregation
The process of netting, grouping, and summing Load consumption data, applying appropriate profiles, Transmission Loss Factors (TLFs), and Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs) and calculating and allocating UFE to determine each QSE and/or Load Serving Entity’s (LSE’s) responsibility by Settlement Interval by Load Zone and by other prescribed aggregation determinants.
Data Aggregation System (DAS)
The database and communication system that collects meter data from TSPs, DSPs and ERCOT Polled Settlement (EPS) Meters.  The system performs aggregation functions to Load data in order to satisfy certain objectives, such as providing TSPs with Load share data to use in billing CRs, assigning QSE Load responsibility, and assisting CRs and QSEs in their Settlement responsibilities.  The data is also compiled along Load and Weather Zones.
Data Archive
An integrated normalized data structure of all the target source systems’ transactions. The population of the Data Archive is an extraction of data from the transaction systems without altering the data. The Data Archive is used to populate the Data Warehouse.
Data Warehouse
De-normalized data stored in a schema, physically optimized to handle high volumes of data and concurrent user access, and generally lightly indexed.
Day-Ahead 
The 24-hour period before the start of the Operating Day. 
Day-Ahead Market (DAM)
A daily, co-optimized market in the Day-Ahead for Ancillary Service capacity, certain CRRs, and forward financial energy transactions. 
Day-Ahead Market (DAM)-Committed Interval
A Settlement Interval for which the Resource has been committed due to a DAM award. 
Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Energy Bid
A proposal to buy energy in the DAM at a Settlement Point at a monotonically decreasing price with increasing quantity.
Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Energy-Only Offer
A QSE’s willingness to sell energy at or above a certain price and at a certain quantity at a specific Settlement Point in the DAM.  A DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve may be offered only in the DAM.  DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves are not Resource-specific.
Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Resettlement Statement (see Settlement Statement)
Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Statement (see Settlement Statement)
Day-Ahead Operations
The Day-Ahead process consisting of the DAM and Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC).
Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC)
A Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process performed for the next Operating Day. 
[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Day-Ahead System-Wide Offer Cap (DASWCAP)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Day-Ahead System-Wide Offer Cap (DASWCAP)
The DASWCAP shall be determined in accordance with Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules.
Delivery Plan
A plan by ERCOT containing the hours and levels of operation that a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit is instructed to operate.
Demand
The amount of instantaneous electric power in MW delivered at any specified point or points on a system.
Designated Representative
A responsible natural person authorized by an Entity to register with ERCOT as a Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Account Holder or manage an REC Account.  
Digital Certificate
An electronic file installed on a programmatic interface or an individual’s assigned computer used to authenticate that the interface or individual is authorized for secure electronic messaging with ERCOT’s computer systems.
Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) 
Any non-synchronous transmission interconnections between ERCOT and non-ERCOT electric power systems.
Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Curtailment Notice
A notification issued by ERCOT indicating the need for curtailment of DC Tie import or export schedules due to current system conditions.
Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load
A Load used to represent the withdrawal of power from the ERCOT System to a DC Tie.
[NPRR857:  Insert the following definition “Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO)” upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO)
An Entity that operates a Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) interconnected to the ERCOT System and that is registered as a DCTO.
Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Resource
A Resource used to represent the injection of power into the ERCOT System from a DC Tie.
Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedule
An energy schedule between ERCOT and a non-ERCOT Control Area and is represented by a corresponding Electronic Tag (e-Tag) that contains the physical transaction information such as the Settlement Point energy amount (MW), the associated DC Tie, and the buyer and seller.  
Direct Load Control (DLC)
The control of end-use equipment (e.g., air conditioning equipment, water heaters) to reduce or increase energy consumption during select periods.
Dispatch
The act of issuing Dispatch Instructions.
Dispatch Instruction
A specific command issued by ERCOT to a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), Transmission Service Provider (TSP), or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) in the operation of the ERCOT System.
[NPRR857:  Replace the above definition “Dispatch Instruction” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Dispatch Instruction
A specific command issued by ERCOT to a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), Transmission Service Provider (TSP), Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO), or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) in the operation of the ERCOT System.
Dispute Contact 
The individual associated with a Market Participant who is the primary contact with ERCOT regarding the pursuit of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) request.
Distributed Generation (DG)
An electrical generating facility located at a Customer’s point of delivery (point of common coupling) ten megawatts (MW) or less and connected at a voltage less than or equal to 60 kilovolts (kV) which may be connected in parallel operation to the utility system. 
Distributed Renewable Generation (DRG)
Electric generation with a capacity of not more than 2,000 kW provided by a renewable energy technology that is installed on a retail electric Customer’s side of the meter.
Distribution Generation Resource (see Resource)
Distribution Loss Factor (DLF)
The ratio of a DSP’s estimated Distribution Losses to the total amount of energy deemed consumed (Interval Data Recorder (IDR) plus profiled consumption) on the DSP’s system. 
Distribution Losses
The difference between the energy delivered to the Distribution System and the energy consumed by Customers connected to the Distribution System.
Distribution Service Provider (DSP)
An Entity that owns or operates a Distribution System for the delivery of energy from the ERCOT Transmission Grid to Customers.
Distribution System
That portion of an electric delivery system operating under 60 kV that provides electric service to Customers or Wholesale Customers.
DUNS Number 
A unique nine-digit common company identifier used in electronic commerce transactions, supplied by the Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS). 
Dynamic Rating 
The current-carrying capability of a Transmission Element adjusted to take into account the effect of ambient weather conditions. 
Dynamic Rating Processor  
A process used to establish ERCOT Transmission Element limits based upon factors such as ambient temperature and wind speed.
Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) (see Resource Attribute)
Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) Load
A Load that a QSE designates to be followed by a Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR).
[NPRR1000:  Delete the definition “Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) Load” above upon system implementation.]
E
[Back to Top]
Effective Load Carrying Capability (ELCC)
Represents the aggregate average Megawatt (MW) contribution of a resource class in maintaining a target level of resource reliability for a given resource portfolio and forecast period.  ELCCs are developed using Monte Carlo system simulation techniques to capture a wide range of system reliability outcomes.  ELCC derivation starts with a base portfolio constructed to achieve the target reliability level.  The resource class (e.g., wind) is removed and substituted with capacity that has perfect availability until the target reliability level is again reached.  The ELCC is the amount of perfect capacity added divided by the amount of the resource class capacity removed, expressed as a percentage.
Electric Cooperative (EC)
(a)	A corporation organized under the Electric Cooperative Corporation Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. ch 161 (Vernon 1998 & Supp. 2007);
(b)	A corporation organized as an electric cooperative in a state other than Texas that has obtained a certificate of authority to conduct business in Texas; or
(c)	A successor to an electric cooperative created before June 1, 1999 under a conversion plan approved by a vote of the members of the electric cooperative, regardless of whether the successor later purchases, acquires, merges with, or consolidates with other electric cooperatives.
Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. (ERCOT)
A Texas nonprofit corporation that has been certified by the PUCT as the Independent Organization for the ERCOT Region.
Electric Reliability Organization
The organization approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to perform the electric reliability organization functions described in the Electricity Modernization Act of 2005, 16 U.S.C. § 824o (2005).
Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID)
The basic identifier assigned to each Service Delivery Point used in the registration and settlement systems managed by ERCOT or another Independent Organization.
Electrical Bus
(1)	A physical transmission element defined in the Network Operations Model that connects, using breakers and switches, one or more:
(a)	Loads; 
(b)	Lines; 
(c)	Transformers; 
(d)	Generators; 
(e)	Capacitors; 
(f)	Reactors; 
(g)	Phase shifters; or 
(h)	Other reactive control devices to the ERCOT Transmission Grid where there is negligible impedance between the connected Transmission Elements.  
(2)	All Electrical Buses are designated by ERCOT and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) for modeling the electrical topology of the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	All Electrical Buses are designated by ERCOT and Market Participants for modeling the electrical topology of the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
Resource Connectivity Node
The Electrical Bus to which the terminal of a Resource is connected.
Electrically Similar Settlement Points
Two or more distinct Settlement Points that are either mapped to the same electrical location in a market model or are mapped to locations that are connected by a transmission element with a reactance of less than 0.0005 per unit.
Eligible Transmission Service Customer
A Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) (for all uses of its transmission system), or any electric utility, MOU, EC, power generation company, CR, REP, federal power marketing agency, exempt wholesale generator, Qualifying Facility (QF), Independent Power Marketer, or other Entity that the PUCT has determined to be an Eligible Transmission Service Customer.
Emergency Base Point
The target MW output level for a Resource that is selected by ERCOT during an Emergency Condition or Watch.
Emergency Condition
An operating condition in which the safety or reliability of the ERCOT System is compromised or threatened, as determined by ERCOT.
Emergency Notice
The communication issued by ERCOT to declare that ERCOT is operating in an Emergency Condition.
[NPRR1216:  Insert the following definition “Emergency Offer Cap (ECAP) Effective Period” upon system implementation:]
Emergency Offer Cap (ECAP) Effective Period
The period during which the System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP) is set to the ECAP. 

[NPRR1216:  Replace the above definition “Emergency Offer Cap (ECAP) Effective Period” with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Emergency Offer Cap (ECAP) Effective Period
The period during which the Day-Ahead System-Wide Offer Cap (DASWCAP) is set to the ECAP. 
Emergency Ramp Rate 
The maximum rate of change (up and down) in MW per minute of a Resource to provide ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) that is deployed by ERCOT and that is provided to ERCOT in up to ten segments, each represented by a single MW per minute value (across the capacity of the Resource), which describes the available rate of change for the given range (between High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Low Sustained Limit (LSL)) of the generation or consumption of a Resource.  In Real-Time Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) Dispatch, the up and down Emergency Ramp Rates are telemetered by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) to ERCOT and represent the total capacity (in MW) that the Resource can change from its current actual generation or consumption within the next five minutes divided by five.
[NPRR1013:  Replace the above definition “Emergency Ramp Rate” with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Emergency Ramp Rate 
The maximum rate of change (up and down) in MW per minute of a Resource to provide energy during Emergency Conditions that is provided to ERCOT in up to ten segments, each represented by a single MW per minute value (across the capacity of the Resource), which describes the available rate of change for the given range (between High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Low Sustained Limit (LSL)) of the generation or consumption of a Resource.  In Real-Time Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) Dispatch, the up and down Emergency Ramp Rates are telemetered by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) to ERCOT and represent the total capacity (in MW) that the Resource can change from its current actual generation or consumption within the next five minutes divided by five.
Emergency Rating (see Rating)
Emergency Response Service (ERS)
An emergency service consistent with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.507, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Emergency Response Service (ERS), to be deployed by ERCOT to help prevent or alleviate an actual or anticipated Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) event.  ERS is not an Ancillary Service. 
ERS-10
ERS with a ten-minute ramp period.
ERS-30
ERS with a 30-minute ramp period.
Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS
A type of ERS in which an ERS Resource may participate in ERS without meeting the qualification requirements for weather sensitivity set forth in paragraph (5) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement.
Weather-Sensitive ERS
A type of ERS in which an ERS Load may participate in ERS only after meeting the qualification requirements for weather sensitivity set forth in paragraph (5) of Section 3.14.3.1.
Emergency Response Service (ERS) Contract Period
A period designated by ERCOT during which an ERS Resource is obligated to provide ERS consisting of all or part of the contiguous hours in an ERS Standard Contract Term.  
Emergency Response Service (ERS) Generator
Either (1) an individual generator contracted to provide ERS which is not a Generation Resource or a source of intermittent renewable generation and which provides ERS by injecting energy to the ERCOT System, or (2) an aggregation of such generators.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Emergency Response Service (ERS) Generator” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Emergency Response Service (ERS) Generator
Either (1) an individual generator contracted to provide ERS which is neither a Generation Resource, nor a source of intermittent renewable generation, nor an Energy Storage Resource (ESR) and which provides ERS by injecting energy to the ERCOT System, or (2) an aggregation of such generators.
Emergency Response Service (ERS) Load
A Load or aggregation of Loads contracted to provide ERS.
Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resource
Either an ERS Load or an ERS Generator.
Emergency Response Service (ERS) Self-Provision
The designation by a QSE of one or more ERS Resources to meet some or all of that QSE’s Load Ratio Share (LRS) of the total ERCOT-wide cost of ERS.
Emergency Response Service (ERS) Standard Contract Term
One of four periods for which ERCOT may procure ERS.
Emergency Response Service (ERS) Time Period
Blocks of hours in an ERS Standard Contract Term in which ERS Resources are contractually committed to provide ERS.
[NPRR1188:  Insert the following definition “Energy Bid Curve” upon system implementation:]
Energy Bid Curve
A proposal from a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) to buy energy at a Settlement Point at a monotonically non-increasing price with increasing quantity.

[NPRR1014:  Insert the following definition “Energy Bid/Offer Curve” upon system implementation:]
Energy Bid/Offer Curve
A proposal from an Energy Storage Resource (ESR) to buy and sell energy at a Settlement Point in the form of a single monotonically non-decreasing price curve that covers both the charging and discharging MW range and provides a bid price for charging and an offer price for discharging.
Energy Emergency Alert (EEA)
An orderly, predetermined procedure for maximizing use of available Resources and, only if necessary, curtailing load during an Emergency Condition while providing for the maximum possible continuity of service and maintaining the integrity of the ERCOT System.
Energy Imbalance Service
An Ancillary Service that is provided when a difference occurs between the scheduled and the actual delivery of energy in Real-Time.
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Energy Imbalance Service” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Energy Imbalance Service
The difference between the amount of energy cleared in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and through trades and the amount of delivery of that energy in the Real-Time Market (RTM).
Energy Offer Curve
A proposal to sell energy at a Settlement Point at a monotonically increasing price with increasing quantity.
Energy Storage Resource (ESR) (see Resource)
Energy Storage System (ESS)
A facility, process, or device(s) that receives electric energy and stores it, in any form, for the purpose of later releasing electrical energy.
Energy Trade 
A QSE-to-QSE financial transaction that transfers responsibility for energy between a buyer and a seller at a Settlement Point. 
Entity
Any natural person, partnership, municipal corporation, cooperative corporation, association, governmental subdivision, or public or private organization.
ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) 
An Ancillary Service that provides operating reserves that is intended to: 
(a) 	Restore Responsive Reserve (RRS) within ten minutes of a frequency deviation that results in significant depletion of RRS by restoring frequency to its scheduled value to return the system to normal; 
(b)	Provide energy or continued Load interruption to avoid or during the implementation of an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA); 
(c)	Provide backup regulation; and
(d)       Be sustained at a specified level for two consecutive hours.
ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) 
Specific engineering, vulnerability, or detailed design information concerning proposed or existing ERCOT System Infrastructure that: 
(a)	Relates details about the production, generation, transportation, transmission or distribution of energy; 
(b)	Could foreseeably be useful to a person planning an attack on ERCOT System Infrastructure; 
(c)	Has not been disclosed to the public through lawful means; and
(d)	Does not simply give the general location of the ERCOT System Infrastructure.
ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter 
Any meter polled directly by ERCOT for use in the Settlement of the market.
ERCOT Research and Innovation (R&I) 
The creative, innovative, and/or systematic work undertaken with ERCOT’s direction or collaboration and that ERCOT believes will improve its ability to plan and/or operate the ERCOT System and/or ERCOT markets.  ERCOT R&I work may include, but is not limited to, research or experimental technology development.
ERCOT Research and Innovation (R&I) Partner
An Entity chosen at ERCOT’s discretion that works with ERCOT to perform ERCOT Research and Innovation.  ERCOT Research and Innovation (R&I) Partners are not paid for their services, but work with ERCOT to advance common research or innovation goals.
ERCOT Region 
The power region, as defined in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.5, Definitions, represented by the ERCOT Control Area. 
ERCOT System
The interconnected power system that is under the jurisdiction of the PUCT and that is not synchronously interconnected with either the Eastern Interconnection or the Western Electricity Coordinating Council.  
ERCOT System Demand 
The sum of all power flows, in MW, on the Direct Current Ties (DC Ties) and from Generation Resources metered at the points of their interconnections with the ERCOT System at any given time. 
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “ERCOT System Demand” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
ERCOT System Demand 
The sum of all power flows, in MW, on the Direct Current Ties (DC Ties) and from Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) in discharge mode, metered at the points of their interconnections with the ERCOT System at any given time.
ERCOT System Infrastructure
The Transmission Facilities, distribution facilities, Resources, Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), and Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resources that comprise the ERCOT System and the physical and virtual cyber assets used to control the ERCOT System.
ERCOT Transmission Grid
All Transmission Facilities that are part of the ERCOT System.
Exceptional Fuel Cost
The hourly volume-weighted price of natural gas, purchased during an Operating Day or after the Day-Ahead nomination deadline of 1300 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on the prior Operating Day, submitted in accordance with paragraph (1)(d) of Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap.
External Load Serving Entity (ELSE)
An Entity that is registered as an LSE and is either:
(a)	A distribution service provider (as that term is defined in P.U.C. Subst. R. 25.5, Definitions), which includes an electric utility, a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU), or an Electric Cooperative (EC) that has a legal duty to serve one or more Customers connected to the ERCOT System but that does not own or operate Facilities connecting Customers to the ERCOT System; or 
(b)	The CFE.
F 
[Back to Top]
Facilities
Equipment situated for the purpose of conducting service and/or business through use of the ERCOT System
Facility Identification Number
A number assigned to a renewable Resource facility by ERCOT. 
Fast Frequency Response (FFR) 
The automatic self-deployment and provision by a Resource of their obligated response within 15 cycles after frequency meets or drops below a preset threshold, or a deployment in response to an ERCOT Extensible Markup Language (XML) messaging instruction within ten minutes.  Resources capable of automatically self-deploying and providing their full Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility within 15 cycles after frequency meets or drops below a preset threshold and sustaining that full response for at least 15 minutes may provide Responsive Reserve (RRS).
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Fast Frequency Response (FFR)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Fast Frequency Response (FFR) 
The automatic self-deployment and provision by a Resource of their obligated response within 15 cycles after frequency meets or drops below a preset threshold, or a deployment in response to an ERCOT Extensible Markup Language (XML) messaging instruction within ten minutes.  Resources capable of automatically self-deploying and providing their full Ancillary Service Resource award within 15 cycles after frequency meets or drops below a preset threshold and sustaining that full response for at least 15 minutes may provide Responsive Reserve (RRS).
Fast Responding Regulation Service (FRRS) (see Regulation Service)
Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down) (see Regulation Service)
Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up) (see Regulation Service)
15-Minute Rating (see Rating)
Financing Person
The lender, security holder, investor, partner, multilateral institution, or other Entity providing financing or refinancing for the business of another Entity, including development, construction, ownership, operation and/or maintenance of a facility or any portion thereof, or any trustee or agent acting on behalf of any of the foregoing.
Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS)  
A service provided by certain Generation Resources in order to maintain Resource availability in the event of a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption.
Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS) Qualified Contract 
A form of Firm Gas Storage Agreement or Firm Transportation Agreement that has been submitted to ERCOT by a Generation Entity for certification that such agreement contains a Qualifying Force Majeure Provision, and otherwise meets the requirements as a Firm Gas Storage Agreement or Firm Transportation Agreement, as applicable, which agreement has in turn been so certified in writing by ERCOT pursuant to the ERCOT Protocols.
Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS) Qualifying Pipeline 
A pipeline that is:
(a)	A natural gas pipeline subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) under the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. § 717 et seq.), an intrastate natural gas pipeline that is not operated by a “gas utility” under Title 3, Gas Regulation, of the Texas Utilities Code, or an intrastate pipeline that is owned or operated by a “gas utility” under Title 3 of the Texas Utilities Code that has certified to the Generation Entity that it does not have any contracts for firm service on such pipeline with human needs customers or local distribution systems that serve human needs customers; and 
(b)	A critical natural gas facility, as defined in subsection (c)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.52, Reliability and Continuity of Service.
A pipeline operated by an Entity that participates in ERCOT’s Load Resource program, Emergency Response Service (ERS) program, or any Demand response programs with respect to any equipment that supports that pipeline will not be eligible to be an FFSS Qualifying Pipeline.
Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource (FFSSR)
A Generation Resource that has an obligation to provide Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS).  A primary Generation Resource that was awarded through the FFSS procurement process is the FFSSR unless the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing the Generation Resource has met the requirements to change the FFSSR to an approved alternate Generation Resource to reflect the manner in which the FFSS obligation is being provided.
Firm Gas Storage Agreement 
An executed and enforceable contract (together with any associated statement of operating conditions) for Firm Service at a natural gas storage facility that:
(a)	Contains a Qualifying Force Majeure Provision; 
(b)	Provides the right to monitor daily balances of storage capacity; and 
(c)	Requires the storage provider to make available a detailed accounting indicating a reasonable estimate ‎of daily and month-to-date receipts and deliveries of natural gas.
Firm Service
Natural gas transportation or storage service that is: 
(a)	Described as firm under a contract, tariff, or statement of operating conditions; 
(b)	The highest priority of service available; and 
(c)	Available on demand and up to the contracted quantities.  
Firm Transportation Agreement 
An executed and enforceable contract (together with any associated statement of operating conditions) for Firm Service on a Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS) Qualifying Pipeline that:
(a)	Contains a Qualifying Force Majeure Provision; 
(b)	Provides the right to monitor daily balances of flowing natural gas; and 
(c)	Requires the pipeline to make available a detailed accounting indicating a reasonable estimate ‎of daily and month-to-date receipts and deliveries of natural gas.
Flowgate Right (FGR) (see Congestion Revenue Right (CRR))
Force Majeure Event 
Any event beyond the reasonable control of, and that occurs without the fault or negligence of, an Entity whose performance is prevented by the occurrence of such event.  Examples of such a Force Majeure Event may include the following, subject to the limitations of the above sentence:  an act of God, labor disturbance, act of the public enemy, war, insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, explosion, breakage or accident to machinery or equipment, or a curtailment, order, regulation or restriction imposed by governmental, military, or lawfully established civilian authorities.
Forced Derate 
The unavailability of a portion of a Resource’s capacity based on its Seasonal net max sustainable rating provided through the Resource Registration process.  For Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) representing Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs), the loss of a portion of the capacity shall be due to the unavailability of a portion of the equipment and shall not include capacity changes due to changes in the power source (e.g., wind speed at the Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) facility for a WGR, or changes in solar irradiance at the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR) facility for a PVGR).  
Forced Outage (see Outage)
Frequency Measurable Event (FME)
An event that results in a frequency deviation, identified at ERCOT’s sole discretion, and meeting one of the following conditions:
(a) 	A frequency deviation that has a pre-perturbation [the 16-second period of time before t(0)] average frequency to post-perturbation [the 32-second period of time starting 20 seconds after t(0)] average frequency absolute deviation greater than 100 mHz (the 100 mHz value may be adjusted by ERCOT to capture 30 to 40 events per year); or
(b)	A cumulative change in generating unit/generating facility, Direct Current Tie (DC Tie), and/or firm load pre-perturbation megawatt value to post-perturbation megawatt value absolute deviation greater than 550 MW (the 550 MW value may be adjusted by ERCOT to capture 30 to 40 events per year).
[NPRR1013 and NPRR1246:  Insert the following definition “Frequency Responsive Capacity (FRC)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Frequency Responsive Capacity (FRC)
The telemetered portion of the total MW output of a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) that represents the fraction of the capacity that is capable of providing Primary Frequency Response.  Capacity not capable of providing Primary Frequency Response includes, but may not be limited to, capacity from duct firing, auxiliary boilers, and other methods that do not immediately respond, arrest, or stabilize frequency excursions following a disturbance without secondary frequency response or instructions from ERCOT.
Fuel Index Price (FIP)
The daily midpoint or average of the prices for natural gas fuel for the Katy area (Katy Hub), expressed in dollars per million British thermal units ($/MMBtu).  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice disclosing the name of the ERCOT-selected source for the average daily index prices used to calculate FIP.  In the event that the ERCOT-selected source becomes unavailable, or ERCOT determines that the source has become unsuitable for the intended purpose, ERCOT may select a substitute source.  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice disclosing its intent to use a substitute source and the name of the substitute source at least 60 days prior to the beginning of its use, or as soon as practicable.  
The effective dates for daily index prices shall be as indicated by the ERCOT-selected source.  For validation of Three-Part Supply Offers in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC), and Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) occurring before midnight of the Operating Day, the FIP effective for the prior Operating Day will be used.  For all other purposes the effective FIP for the Operating Day will be used.  If the Katy Hub index is not available, the effective price for the most recent preceding Operating Day shall be used. 
Fuel Oil Price (FOP)
An average of the daily index prices for fuel oil for each Operating Day, plus five cents per gallon, for U.S. Gulf Coast, Houston pipeline No. 2 oil, converted to dollars per million British thermal units ($/MMBtu).  The conversion is 0.1385 MMBtu per gallon.  The effective dates for daily index prices shall be as indicated in the ERCOT-selected index.  In the event, at the time of settlement or calculation of generic costs, that the effective price for a particular Operating Day is not available, the effective price for the most recent preceding Operating Day shall be used. 
ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice disclosing the name of the ERCOT-selected source for the average daily index prices used to calculate FOP.  In the event that the ERCOT-selected index becomes unavailable, or ERCOT determines that the index has become unsuitable for the intended purpose, ERCOT may select a substitute index source.  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice disclosing its intent to use a substitute index source and the name of the substitute index source at least 60 days prior to the beginning of its use, or as soon as practicable.
Full Interconnection Study (FIS)
The set of studies conducted by a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) for the purpose of identifying any electric system improvements or enhancements required to reliably interconnect generation meeting the requirements of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, Applicability.  These studies may include steady-state studies, system protection (short-circuit) studies, dynamic and transient stability studies, facility studies, and sub-synchronous oscillation studies.
G
[Back to Top]
Generation Entity
The owner of a Generation Resource or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) and, unless otherwise specified in these Protocols, is registered as a Resource Entity.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of the above definition “Generation Entity” with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
Generation Entity
The owner of a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS), or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) and, unless otherwise specified in these Protocols, is registered as a Resource Entity.
Generation Resource (see Resource)
Generator Step-Up (GSU)
Transformer in a station with generation where the voltage is transformed from the voltage level of the generator terminals to a higher voltage.  If the higher voltage is at or above 60 kV, the GSU may also be referred to as a Main Power Transformer (MPT).
Generic Transmission Constraint (GTC)
A transmission constraint made up of one or more grouped Transmission Elements that is used to constrain flow between geographic areas of ERCOT for the purpose of managing stability, voltage, and other constraints that cannot otherwise be modeled directly in ERCOT’s powerflow and contingency analysis applications.
Generic Transmission Limit (GTL)
The value of the transmission flow limit associated with a GTC. 
Generation To Be Dispatched (GTBD)
A dynamically calculated system total generation MW requirement used by Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) for resource dispatch, calculated every four seconds. 
Good Utility Practice 
Any of the practices, methods, and acts engaged in, or approved by, a significant portion of the electric utility industry during the relevant time period, or any of the practices, methods, and acts that, in the exercise of reasonable judgment in light of the facts known at the time the decision was made, could have been expected to accomplish the desired result at a reasonable cost consistent with good business practices, reliability, safety, and expedition.  Good Utility Practice is not intended to be limited to the optimum practice, method, or act, to the exclusion of all others, but rather is intended to include acceptable practices, methods, and acts generally accepted in the region. 
Governmental Authority
Any federal, state, local, or municipal body having jurisdiction over a Market Participant or ERCOT.  A Governmental Authority that is also a Market Participant may not exercise its jurisdiction in any matter that involves the interests of that Market Participant where that matter also involves the interests or responsibilities of any other Market Participant or ERCOT, unless the matter is one in which the Market Participant has exclusive jurisdiction. 
Governmental Cybersecurity Oversight Agency
A state or federal agency with cybersecurity oversight responsibility.  Cybersecurity oversight includes the review, monitoring, supervision, and/or enforcement of cybersecurity laws, programs, activities, and policies.
Governor
The electronic, digital, or mechanical device that implements Primary Frequency Response of generating units/generating facilities or other system elements.
Governor Dead-Band
The range of deviations of system frequency (+/-) that produces no Primary Frequency Response.
H
[Back to Top]
High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) 
A dynamically calculated MW upper limit on a Resource to reserve the part of the Resource’s capacity committed for Ancillary Service, calculated as described in Section 6.5.7.2, Resource Limit Calculator.  HASL is also included in Section 5.7.4.1.1, Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share, Section 6.8.3.1.1, Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share for an LCAP Effective Period, and in the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) optimization but is not adjusted for Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity (NFRC) as in Section 6.5.7.2.
[NPRR1216:  Replace the above definition “High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL)” with the following upon system implementation:]
High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) 
A dynamically calculated MW upper limit on a Resource to reserve the part of the Resource’s capacity committed for Ancillary Service, calculated as described in Section 6.5.7.2, Resource Limit Calculator.  HASL is also included in Section 5.7.4.1.1, Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share, and in the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) optimization but is not adjusted for Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity (NFRC) as in Section 6.5.7.2.

[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
High Emergency Limit (HEL)
The limit established by the QSE describing the maximum temporary unsustainable energy production capability of a Resource.  This limit must be achievable for a time stated by the QSE, but not less than 30 minutes. 
High Impact Outage (HIO) (see Outage)
High Impact Transmission Element (HITE) (see Transmission Element)
High Sustained Limit (HSL)
[NPRR1014:  Insert the following definition “High Sustained Limit (HSL) for an Energy Storage Resource (ESR)” upon system implementation:]
High Sustained Limit (HSL) for an Energy Storage Resource (ESR)
The limit established by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), expressed as a MW value that may be less than, equal to, or greater than zero, continuously updated in Real-Time.  A positive HSL for an ESR describes the maximum sustained energy discharging capability of the ESR.  A negative HSL for an ESR describes the minimum temporary energy charging capability of the ESR.
High Sustained Limit (HSL) for a Generation Resource
The limit established by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), continuously updated in Real-Time, that describes the maximum sustained energy production capability of the Resource.  
High Sustained Limit (HSL) for a Load Resource
The limit calculated by ERCOT, using the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)-established Maximum Power Consumption (MPC).  
Hotline 
The telecommunications capability of the ERCOT Wide Area Network (WAN) reserved for simultaneous communications with WAN Participants or their designated agents.    
Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) 
Any RUC executed after the DRUC.
Hub 
A designated Settlement Point consisting of a Hub Bus or group of Hub Buses and the associated Settlement price calculation methodology prescribed in the definition of the Hub in Section 3.5.2, Hub Definitions.  Hubs may only be created by an amendment to Section 3.5.2.  The list of Hub Buses and the Settlement price calculation methodology that define a Hub can never be modified, and a Hub, once defined, exists in perpetuity.
Hub Bus
(1)	In the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction, an energized power flow bus or group of energized power flow buses are defined as a single element in the Hub definition.  The Locational Marginal Price (LMP) of the Hub Bus is the simple average of the LMPs assigned to each energized power flow bus in the Hub Bus.  If all power flow buses within a Hub Bus are de-energized, the LMP of the Hub does not include the de-energized Hub Bus.  If power flow buses within a Hub Bus are de-energized under contingency, the disconnected MWs are redistributed among remaining energized power flow buses. This is used solely for calculating the prices of existing Hub Buses defined in Section 3.5.2, Hub Definitions; or
(2)	In the Real-Time Market (RTM), an energized Electrical Bus or group of energized Electrical Buses defined as a single element in the Hub definition.  The LMP of the Hub Bus is the simple average of the LMPs assigned to each energized Electrical Bus in the Hub Bus.  If all Electrical Buses within a Hub Bus are de-energized, the LMP of the Hub does not include the de-energized Hub Bus.  This is used solely for calculating the prices of existing Hub Buses defined in Section 3.5.2.
Hub LMP (see Locational Marginal Price)
I
[Back to Top]
Independent Market Information System Registered Entity (IMRE)
A Market Participant that has signed the Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (as provided for in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement), and has completed applicable registration and approval for the sole purpose of accessing the MIS Secure Area.
Independent Market Monitor (IMM)
The Entity selected to monitor the wholesale electric market pursuant to the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA), TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 39.1515 (Vernon 1998 & Supp. 2007) and P.U.C SUBST. R. 25.365, Independent Market Monitor.
Independent Organization
An independent organization as defined in the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA), TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 39.151 (Vernon 1998 & Supp. 2007)
Initial Energization
The first time a Generation Resource or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) facility’s equipment connects to the ERCOT System during commissioning.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of the above definition “Initial Energization” with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
Initial Energization
The first time a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS), or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) facility’s equipment connects to the ERCOT System during commissioning.
Initial Synchronization
The first time a Generation Resource or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) facility’s new equipment injects power to the ERCOT System during commissioning.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of the above definition “Initial Synchronization” with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
Initial Synchronization 
The first time a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS), or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) facility’s new equipment injects power to the ERCOT System during commissioning.
Interconnecting Entity (IE)
Any Entity that has submitted a Generation Interconnection or Change Request Application for a Generation Resource or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) and meets the requirements of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, Applicability.
[NPRR995:  Replace the above definition “Interconnecting Entity (IE)” with the following upon system implementation:]
Interconnecting Entity (IE) 
Any Entity that has submitted a Generation Interconnection or Change Request Application for a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS), or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) and meets the requirements of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, Applicability.
Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) (see Resource Attribute)
Interval Data Recorder (IDR)
A metering device that is capable of recording energy in each Settlement Interval under Section 9, Settlement and Billing, and Section 10, Metering.
Interval Data Recorder (IDR) Meter
An IDR where the ESI ID is required to be assigned a BUSIDRRQ Load Profile Type code and data is submitted in accordance with Section 10.3.3.3, Submission of Settlement Quality Meter Data to ERCOT.
Interval Data Recorder (IDR) Meter Data Threshold
The percentage of IDR Meter data, by Meter Reading Entity (MRE), that must be available before ERCOT will perform a True-Up Settlement as set forth in Section 9.5.8, RTM True-Up Statement.
Interval Data Recorder (IDR) Mandatory Installation Requirements
The kW (kVA) level at which the installation of an IDR is required for Settlement purposes as set forth in Section 18.6.1, Interval Data Recorder Mandatory Installation Requirements.
Intra-Hour Load Forecast (IHLF)
The Load forecast in five minute increments.
Intra-Hour PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (IHPPF)
The forecast of PhotoVoltaic (PV) generation in MW in five minute increments.
Intra-Hour Wind Power Forecast (IHWPF)
The forecast of wind generation in MW in five minute increments.
Invoice 
A notice for payment or credit due rendered by ERCOT. 
Invoice Recipient
A Market Participant that receives an Invoice from ERCOT.
Isochronous Control Capable Resource
A Resource that is capable of controlling frequency in isochronous control mode instead of droop control mode during a Blackout or Partial Blackout.
J
[Back to Top]
K
[Back to Top]
L
[Back to Top]
Level I Maintenance Outage (see Outage)
Level II Maintenance Outage (see Outage)
Level III Maintenance Outage (see Outage) 
Limited Impact Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) (see Remedial Action Scheme (RAS))
Load
The amount of energy in MWh delivered at any specified point or points on a system.
Wholesale Storage Load (WSL)   
Energy that is separately metered from all other Facilities to charge a technology that is capable of storing energy and releasing that energy at a later time to generate electric energy.  WSL includes losses for the energy conversion process that are captured by the WSL EPS Meter.  WSL is limited to the following technologies: batteries, flywheels, compressed air energy storage, pumped hydro-electric power, electro chemical capacitors, and thermal energy storage associated with turbine inlet chilling.
[PIR003:  ERCOT Protocol Interpretation of Wholesale Storage Load (WSL):]
On June 11, 2013, ERCOT issued a Protocol Interpretation on the definition of Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) – providing guidance on which facilities are eligible for Settlement treatment under WSL.  See Market Notice M-A061113-1, Protocol Interpretation Request – Wholesale Storage Load, at https://www.ercot.com/mktrules/nprotocols/pir_process for full details of the Protocol Interpretation of WSL.

[PIR004:  ERCOT Protocol Interpretation of Wholesale Storage Load (WSL):]
On August 16, 2016, ERCOT issued a Protocol Interpretation on the definition of Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) – providing additional guidance on which facilities are eligible for Settlement treatment under WSL.  See Market Notice M-A081616-01, Protocol Interpretation Request – Wholesale Storage Load, at https://www.ercot.com/mktrules/nprotocols/pir_process for full details of the Protocol Interpretation of WSL.
Load Frequency Control (LFC)
The deployment of those Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) and Generation Resources that are providing Regulation Service to ensure that system frequency is maintained within predetermined limits and the deployment of those CLRs and Generation Resources that are providing ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) when necessary as backup regulation.  LFC does include the deployment of Responsive Reserve (RRS) (manual) and ECRS from Generation Resources and CLRs.  LFC does not include the deployment of ECRS or RRS by Load Resources when deployed as a block under Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) procedures.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Load Frequency Control (LFC)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Load Frequency Control (LFC)
The deployment of those Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), Generation Resources, and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) that are providing Regulation Service to ensure that system frequency is maintained within predetermined limits and the deployment of those Resources that are providing ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) when necessary as backup regulation.  LFC does include the deployment of Responsive Reserve (RRS) (manual) and ECRS from Generation Resources, CLRs, and ESRs.  LFC does not include the deployment of ECRS or RRS by Load Resources when deployed as a block under Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) procedures.
Load Profile
A representation of the energy usage of a group of Customers, showing the Demand variation on an hourly or sub-hourly basis.
Load Profile ID
The Load Profile designation string that contains, the Load Profile Type Code, the Weather Zone Code, the Meter Data Type Code, the Weather Sensitivity Code, and the Time-Of-Use Schedule Code.  An example of all Load Profile IDs are located in the Load Profiling Guide, Appendix D, Profile Decision Tree.
Load Profile Models 
Processes that use analytical modeling techniques to create Load Profiles.
Load Profile Segment
A sub-classification of a Load Profile Group.  High Winter Ratio (HWR) is an example.  Together, the Load Profile Group and the Load Profile Segment form the Load Profile Type.
Load Profile Type
A classification of a group of Customers having similar energy usage patterns and that are assigned the same Load Profile.
Load Profiling
The set of processes used to develop and create Load Profiles.
Load Profiling Methodology
The fundamental basis on which Load Profiles are created.  The implementation of a Load Profiling Methodology may require statistical Sampling, engineering methods, econometric modeling, or other approaches.
Load Ratio Share
The ratio of an Entity’s AML to total ERCOT AML for an interval.
Load Resource (see Resource)
Load Serving Entity (LSE)
An Entity that sells energy to Customers or Wholesale Customers and that has registered as an LSE with ERCOT.  LSEs include Competitive Retailers (which includes REPs) and NOIEs that serve Load and ELSEs.
Load Zone
(1)	In the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction, a group of power flow buses assigned to the same zone under Section 3.4, Load Zones.  Every power flow bus in ERCOT with a Load must be assigned to a Load Zone for Settlement purposes.
(2)	In the Real-Time Market (RTM), a group of Electrical Buses assigned to the same zone under Section 3.4.  Every Electrical Bus in ERCOT with a Load must be assigned to a Load Zone for Settlement purposes.  
(3)	A Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) Load Zone is a type of Load Zone. 
Load Zone LMP (see Locational Marginal Price)
Locational Marginal Price (LMP)
The offer and/or bid-based marginal cost of serving the next increment of Load at an Electrical Bus, which marginal cost is produced by the DAM process or by the SCED process. 
Hub LMP
The price calculated for a Hub for each SCED interval according to the formula in Section 6.6.1.5, Hub LMPs, using LMPs at the Electrical Buses included in the Hub. 
Load Zone LMP
The price calculated for a Load Zone for each SCED interval according to the formula in Section 6.6.1.4, Load Zone LMPs, using State Estimator Load data and LMPs at the Electrical Buses included in the Load Zone.
Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Affiliate 
An Entity that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the LSIPA Designated Company.  For purposes of this definition, “controls,” “controlled by,” or “under common control with” shall mean (1) the ownership of 20% or more of the outstanding securities of an Entity or (2) the power of an Entity, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, to direct the management and/or policies and procedures of another Entity.  Ownership by an Entity of equity securities (whether publicly traded or not) of another Entity shall not result in control for purposes of this definition if the holder owns (in its name or via intermediaries) 20% or more of the outstanding securities of the Entity, and: (a) the securities are held as a passive investment; (b) the holder does not have representation on the Entity’s board of directors (or equivalent governing body) or vice versa; and (c) the holder does not in fact exercise influence over day-to-day management decisions.
Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Designated Company
An Entity (including an LSIPA Affiliate) that meets any of the company ownership or headquarters criteria listed in Texas Business and Commerce Code, Section 117.002(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B) or Texas Government Code Section 2275.0102(a)(2)(A)-(b)(2)(B).
Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Designated Country 
China, Iran, North Korea, Russia, or a country designated by the Governor as a threat to critical infrastructure pursuant to Texas Business and Commerce Code, Section 117.003 or Texas Government Code, Section 2275.0103.
Loss of Load Expectation (LOLE)
A probabilistic measure of the expected frequency of system Load shed events for a given time period.  LOLE is defined as the expected value of the number of days where at least one loss of Load event occurs (e.g., one day per 100 years).  A loss of Load event is an hour during which firm Load, plus required minimum operating reserves, exceeds available generation capacity.
Low Ancillary Service Limit (LASL)  
A dynamically calculated MW lower limit on a Resource to maintain the ability of the Resource to provide committed Ancillary Service. 
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Low Ancillary Service Limit (LASL)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Low Emergency Limit (LEL) 
The limit established by the QSE describing the minimum temporary unsustainable energy production capability of a Resource.  This limit must be achievable for a period of time indicated by the QSE but not less than 30 minutes. 
Low Power Consumption (LPC) 
For a Load Resource, the limit established by the QSE, continuously updated in Real-Time, that describes the minimum sustained power consumption of a Load Resource.  The LPC shall be a non-negative number in MW.
Low Sustained Limit (LSL)
[NPRR1014:  Insert the following definition “Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for an Energy Storage Resource (ESR)” upon system implementation:]
Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for an Energy Storage Resource (ESR)
The limit established by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), expressed as a MW value that may be less than, equal to, or greater than zero, continuously updated in Real-Time.  A negative LSL for an ESR describes the maximum sustained energy charging capability of the ESR.  A positive LSL for an ESR describes the minimum temporary energy discharging capability of the ESR.
Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for a Generation Resource
The limit established by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), continuously updatable in Real-Time, that describes the minimum sustained energy production capability of a Resource. 
Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for a Load Resource
The limit calculated by ERCOT, using the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)-established Low Power Consumption (LPC).
Low System-Wide Offer Cap (LCAP) Effective Period
The period in which the System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP) is set to the LCAP. 
M
[Back to Top]
Main Power Transformer (MPT)
Transformer in a station with generation where voltage is transformed from a voltage lower than 60 kV to a voltage at or above 60 kV.  If the voltage lower than 60 kV is the voltage level of the generator terminals, the MPT may also be referred to as a Generator Step-Up (GSU).
Maintenance Outage (see Outage)
Make-Whole Charge
A charge made by ERCOT to a QSE for a Resource to recapture all or part of the revenues received by a QSE that exceed the Make-Whole Payment for a Resource.
Make-Whole Payment 
A payment made by ERCOT to a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for a Resource to reimburse a QSE for allowable startup and minimum energy costs of a Resource not recovered in energy revenue when a Resource is committed by Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) and the QSE has not elected to opt out of RUC Settlement, or when a Resource is committed by the Day-Ahead Market (DAM).
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Make-Whole Payment” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Make-Whole Payment 
A payment made by ERCOT to a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for a Resource to reimburse a QSE for allowable startup and minimum energy costs of a Resource not recovered in energy or Ancillary Service revenue when a Resource is committed by Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) and the QSE has not elected to opt out of RUC Settlement, or when a Resource is committed by the Day-Ahead Market (DAM).
Mandatory Installation Threshold
A peak demand greater than 700 kW (or 700 kVA).
Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC)
The hourly price for Ancillary Service capacity awarded in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or a Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM).  
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Make-Whole Payment” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC)
The price for Ancillary Service capacity awarded in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or the Real-Time Market (RTM).
Market Information System (MIS)
An electronic communications interface established and maintained by ERCOT that enables Market Participants, as a group or individually, to access certain information through the use of authenticated credentials. 
Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area
The portion of the MIS that is available only to a specific Market Participant. 
Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area
The portion of the MIS that is available only to registered Market Participants.
Market Notice
A notice required by the Protocols or any Other Binding Document, or at ERCOT’s discretion, regarding market-relevant information or other information that is communicated through ERCOT publicly-subscribed electronic distribution channels, or to relevant groups of Authorized Representatives as ERCOT may deem appropriate.
Market Participant
An Entity, other than ERCOT, that engages in any activity that is in whole or in part the subject of these Protocols, regardless of whether that Entity has signed an Agreement with ERCOT.  Examples of such an Entity include but are not limited to the following: 
(a)	Load Serving Entity (LSE); 
(b)	Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE); 
(c)	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP); 
(d)	Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder; 
(e)	Resource Entity; 
(f)	Independent Market Information System Registered Entity (IMRE); and 
(g)	Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Account Holder. 
[NPRR857:  Replace the above definition “Market Participant” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Market Participant
An Entity, other than ERCOT, that engages in any activity that is in whole or in part the subject of these Protocols, regardless of whether that Entity has signed an Agreement with ERCOT.  Examples of such an Entity include but are not limited to the following:
(a) 	Load Serving Entity (LSE);
(b) 	Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE);
(c)	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP);
(d) 	Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO);
(e) 	Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder;
(f) 	Resource Entity;
(g) 	Independent Market Information System Registered Entity (IMRE); and 
(h) 	Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Account Holder.
Market Restart
The processes by which ERCOT market-related systems and activities are returned to normal operations during and/or following a Market Suspension. 
Market Segment
The segments defined in Article 2 of the ERCOT Bylaws.
Market Suspension
The time period during which market-related systems and activities are terminated due to a triggering event that disables all, or a significant portion of, the necessary data and/or infrastructure for operations of those systems and markets.  Such triggering events may include, but are not limited to, Blackouts, Partial Blackouts, and Force Majeure Events. 
Mass Transition
The transition of Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) from one Competitive Retailer (CR) to a Provider of Last Resort (POLR) or designated CR, or from one Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) to another TDSP, in a quantity or within a timeframe identified by Applicable Legal Authority.
Mass Transition Decision 
Parameters associated with a Mass Transition event that dictate the parties involved and the Mass Transition Effective Date.  Mass Transition Decision parameters include designation of the Losing CR, the Gaining CR, the preliminary list of transitioning ESI IDs, and the Mass Transition Effective Date.
Mass Transition Effective Date 
The date on which the Mass Transition of ESI IDs from the Losing CR to the Gaining CR takes place.  This is the date on which the meter read is taken and is used in Mass Transition transactions.
Master Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) (see Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE))
Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity
The aggregate maximum MW of Resource Planned Outages that will be approved by ERCOT for any time period within a given day, calculated pursuant to Section 3.1.6.13, Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity.
Maximum Power Consumption (MPC) 
For a Load Resource, the limit established by the QSE, continuously updated in Real-Time, that describes the maximum sustained power consumption of a Load Resource.  The MPC shall be a positive number in MW.
Messaging System
The ERCOT-to-QSE communications system used to send Real-Time notices and Dispatch Instructions to QSEs.
Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS)
The system used to obtain revenue quality meter data from EPS meters and Settlement Quality Meter Data from TSPs and DSPs for Settlement and to populate the DAS and Data Archive.
Meter Reading Entity (MRE) 
A Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) that is responsible for providing ERCOT with Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) level consumption data as defined in Section 19, Texas Standard Electronic Transaction.  In the case of an ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter or ERCOT-populated ESI ID data (such as Generation Resource site Load), ERCOT will be identified as the MRE in ERCOT systems.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Meter Reading Entity (MRE)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Meter Reading Entity (MRE) 
A Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) that is responsible for providing ERCOT with Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) level consumption data as defined in Section 19, Texas Standard Electronic Transaction.  In the case of an ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter or ERCOT-populated ESI ID data, ERCOT will be identified as the MRE in ERCOT systems.
Metering Facilities
Revenue Quality Meters, instrument transformers, secondary circuitry, secondary devices, meter data servers, related communication Facilities and other related local equipment intended to supply ERCOT settlement quality data.
Minimum-Energy Offer
An offer for the costs incurred by a Resource in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL expressed in $/MWh.
Minimum Point-to-Point (PTP) Option Bid Price 
A value of $0.010 representing the minimum price that can be submitted into the CRR Auction for a PTP Option bid.  
Minimum Reservation Price 
The lowest price that a seller is willing to accept. 
Mitigated Offer Cap (MOC)
An upper limit on the price of an offer as detailed in Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap.
[NPRR826:  Replace the above definition “Mitigated Offer Cap (MOC)” with the following upon system implementation:]
Mitigated Offer Cap (MOC) 
An upper limit on the price of an offer as detailed in Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap, and Section 4.4.9.4.3, Mitigated Offer Cap for RMR Resources.
Mitigated Offer Floor 
A lower limit on the price of an offer as detailed in Section 4.4.9.4.2, Mitigated Offer Floor.
Mitigation Plan (see Constraint Management Plan)
Mothballed Generation Resource (see Resource Attribute)
Move-In Request
A request submitted by a CR on behalf of a Customer to initiate service at a Premise with the requesting CR.
Move-Out Request
A request submitted by a CR on behalf of a Customer to terminate service at a Premise with the requesting CR.
Municipally Owned Utility (MOU)
A utility owned, operated, and controlled by a nonprofit corporation, the directors of which are appointed by one or more municipalities, or a utility owned, operated, or controlled by a municipality.
Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) / Electric Cooperative (EC) Non-BUSIDRRQ Interval Data Recorder (IDR)
An IDR that is not assigned a BUSIDRRQ Load Profile Type and is located in an MOU or an EC area that is offering Customer Choice.  Data submittal for these recorders will be as per Retail Market Guide, Appendix G, ERCOT Specified File Format for Submission of Interval Data for Advanced Metering Systems.
Must-Run Alternative (MRA)
A resource operated under the terms of an Agreement with ERCOT as an alternative to a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit.
[NPRR885, NPRR995, and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of the above definition “Must-Run Alternative (MRA)” with the following upon system implementation for NPRR885 or NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
Must-Run Alternative (MRA)
A resource operated under the terms of an Agreement with ERCOT as an alternative to a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit.  An MRA may be one of the following:
Generation Resource MRA
A generator that is registered with ERCOT as a Generation Resource that is dispatchable in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) and is providing Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service under an Agreement with ERCOT.  
Energy Storage Resource (ESR) MRA
An ESR that is registered with ERCOT as an ESR that is dispatchable in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) and is providing Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service under an Agreement with ERCOT.
Other Generation MRA
Unregistered generation, or generation registered with ERCOT that is not dispatchable in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED), that is providing Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service under an Agreement with ERCOT.  An Other Generation MRA may include, but is not limited to, Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), Settlement Only Energy Storage Systems (SOESSs), and Distributed Generation (DG).
Demand Response MRA 
A Load providing Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service under an Agreement with ERCOT by reducing energy consumption in response to an ERCOT instruction.  A Demand Response MRA may be an unregistered Load or a registered Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource (CLR).
Weather-Sensitive MRA 
A type of Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service in which a Demand Response MRA provides MRA Service only after meeting the qualification requirements for weather sensitivity set forth in paragraph (5) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement.

[NPRR885:  Insert the following definition “Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Contracted Hour(s)” upon system implementation:]
Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Contracted Hour(s)
The hour(s) during which an MRA is contracted under an MRA Agreement to provide MRA Service.

[NPRR885:  Insert the following definition “Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Contracted Month(s)” upon system implementation:]
Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Contracted Month(s)
The month(s) during which an MRA is contracted under an MRA Agreement to provide MRA Service.

[NPRR885:  Insert the following definition “Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service” upon system implementation:]
Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service
The use by ERCOT, under contracts with Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs), of capacity and energy from MRAs as an alternative to Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Service.

[NPRR885:  Insert the following definition “Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Site” upon system implementation:]
Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Site
An individually metered component of an aggregated MRA.
MW Injection 
The instantaneous Megawatt (MW) energy injected into the ERCOT System as measured at the Point of Interconnection (POI).
[NPRR1077:  Replace the above definition “MW Injection” with the following upon system implementation:]
MW Injection 
The instantaneous Megawatt (MW) energy injected into the ERCOT System as measured at the Point of Interconnection (POI) or Point of Common Coupling (POCC).
MW Withdrawal 
The instantaneous Megawatt (MW) energy withdrawn from the ERCOT System as measured at the Point of Interconnection (POI).
[NPRR1077:  Replace the above definition “MW Withdrawal” with the following upon system implementation:]
MW Withdrawal 
The instantaneous Megawatt (MW) energy withdrawn from the ERCOT System as measured at the Point of Interconnection (POI) or Point of Common Coupling (POCC).
N
[Back to Top]
Net Dependable Capability
The maximum sustained capability of a Resource as demonstrated by performance testing.  
Net Generation
Gross generation less station auxiliary Load or other internal unit power requirements metered at or adjusted to the POI with the ERCOT Transmission Grid at the common switchyard.
Net Load
The Load for a given period minus generation from PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) and Wind Generation Resources (WGRs) for the same period.
Network Operations Model  
A representation of the ERCOT System providing the complete physical network definition, characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Resource Entities, and Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs).
[NPRR857:  Replace the above definition “Network Operations Model” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Network Operations Model  
A representation of the ERCOT System providing the complete physical network definition, characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), Resource Entities, and Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs).
Network Security Analysis
A processor used by ERCOT to monitor Transmission Elements in the ERCOT Transmission Grid for limit violations and to verify Electrical Bus voltage limits to be within a percentage tolerance as outlined in the Operating Guides. 
Non-Competitive Constraint
A contingency and limiting Transmission Element pair or group of Transmission Elements associated with a GTC that is not determined to be a Competitive Constraint under the process defined in Section 3.19, Constraint Competitiveness Tests.   
Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity (NFRC)
The telemetered portion of a Generation Resource’s High Sustained Limit (HSL) that represents the sustainable non-Dispatched power augmentation capability from duct firing, inlet air cooling, auxiliary boilers, or other methods which does not immediately respond, arrest, or stabilize frequency excursions during the first minutes following a disturbance without secondary frequency response or instructions from ERCOT.   
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity (NFRC)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Non-Metered Load
Load that is not required to be metered by applicable transmission or distribution tariff.
Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE)
An EC or MOU that does not offer Customer Choice.
Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) Load Zone
A Load Zone established by a NOIE or a group of NOIEs using a one-time NOIE election.
Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) 
An Ancillary Service that is provided through use of the part of Off-Line Generation Resources that can be synchronized and ramped to a specified output level within 30 minutes (or Load Resources that can be interrupted within 30 minutes) and that can operate (or Load Resources that can be interrupted) at a specified output level for at least four consecutive hours.  Non-Spin may also be provided from unloaded On-Line capacity that meets the 30-minute response requirements, that is reserved exclusively for use for this service and that can be sustained at a specified level for at least four consecutive hours. 
Non-Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) Energy Storage Resource (ESR) Charging Load
The metered or calculated charging Load withdrawn by an Energy Storage Resource (ESR) that is not receiving Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) treatment.
[NPRR995:  Insert the following definition “Non-Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) Settlement Only Charging Load” upon system implementation:]
Non-Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) Settlement Only Charging Load
The metered or calculated charging Load withdrawn by a Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS) or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS) that is not receiving Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) treatment.
Normal Ramp Rate
The rate of change (up and down) in MW per minute of a Resource, which is specified by the QSE to ERCOT by up to ten segments; each segment represents a single MW per minute value (across the capacity of the Resource) that describe the available rate of change for the given range (between HSL and LSL) of generation or consumption of a Resource.  In Real-Time SCED Dispatch, the up and down Normal Ramp Rates are telemetered by the QSE to ERCOT and represent the total capacity (in MW) that the Resource can change from its current actual generation or consumption within the next five minutes divided by five.
Normal Rating (see Rating)
North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Regional Entity
An Entity with delegated authority from the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to propose and enforce NERC Reliability Standards in the ERCOT Region.
Notice or Notification
The sending of information by an Entity to Market Participants, ERCOT, or others, as called for in these Protocols.  Notice or Notification may be sent by electronic mail, facsimile transmission, U.S. mail, or any other method authorized by the Protocols.
O
[Back to Top]
Off-Line
The status of a Resource that is not synchronously interconnected to the ERCOT System.
On-Line
The status of a Resource that is synchronously interconnected to the ERCOT System.
On-Peak Hours 
Hours ending in 0700 to 2200 CPT from Monday through Friday excluding NERC holidays. 
Operating Condition Notice (OCN)
The first of three levels of communication issued by ERCOT in anticipation of a possible Emergency Condition.
Operating Day
The day, including hours ending 0100 to 2400, during which energy flows.
Operating Hour
A full clock hour during which energy flows. 
Operating Period
A two-hour period comprised of the Operating Hour and the clock hour preceding the Operating Hour.
Operating Reserve Demand Curve (ORDC)
A curve that represents the value of reserves at different reserve levels based on the probability of reserves falling below the minimum contingency level and the Value of Lost Load (VOLL), as further described in the Methodology for Implementing Operating Reserve Demand Curve (ORDC) to Calculate Real-Time Reserve Price Adder.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Operating Reserve Demand Curve (ORDC)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Opportunity Outage (see Outage)
Opt Out Snapshot 
A record of a Resource’s Current Operating Plan (COP) used to determine whether the Resource will opt out of Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Settlement for a block of RUC-Committed Hours.  The Opt Out Snapshot is taken at the earlier of:
(a)	Two hours prior to the end of the Adjustment Period for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours; or 
(b)	Two hours prior to the beginning of the hour that is at least N hours prior to the first hour of the contiguous block of the RUC-Committed hours, where N is the start time contained in the ERCOT computer system at the time of the RUC execution associated with the RUC instruction corresponding to the Resource’s warmth state.  If the RUC-Committed Hours are an extension of a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)-Committed Interval either before or after, N will be set to zero.  For a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within a Combined Cycle Train, including a RUC to a different configuration with additional capacity, the start time is the start time corresponding to the specific configuration of the RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
Other Binding Documents List
List of Other Binding Documents as managed in paragraph (3) of Section 1.1, Summary of the ERCOT Protocols Document.
Outage
The condition of a Transmission Facility or a portion of a Facility, or Generation Resource that is part of the ERCOT System and defined in the Network Operations Model that has been removed from its normal service, excluding the operations of Transmission Facilities associated with the start-up and shutdown of Generation Resources.  
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Outage” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Outage
The condition of a Transmission Facility or a portion of a Facility, or Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) that is part of the ERCOT System and defined in the Network Operations Model that has been removed from its normal service, excluding the operations of Transmission Facilities associated with the start-up and shutdown of Resources.
Forced Outage
An Outage initiated by protective relay, or manually in response to an observation by personnel that the condition of equipment could lead to an event, or potential event, that poses a threat to people, equipment, or public safety.
For a Generation Resource, an Outage that requires immediate removal, either through controlled or uncontrolled actions, of all or a portion of the capacity of the Resource from service through automated or manual means.  This type of Outage usually results from immediate mechanical/electrical/hydraulic control system trips and operator-initiated actions in response to a Resource’s condition.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Forced Outage” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Forced Outage
An Outage initiated by protective relay, or manually in response to an observation by personnel that the condition of equipment could lead to an event, or potential event, that poses a threat to people, equipment, or public safety.
For a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR), an Outage that requires immediate removal, either through controlled or uncontrolled actions, of all or a portion of the capacity of the Resource from service through automated or manual means.  This type of Outage usually results from immediate mechanical/electrical/hydraulic control system trips and operator-initiated actions in response to a Resource’s condition.
High Impact Outage (HIO)
A Planned Outage or Rescheduled Outage that interrupts flow on a High Impact Transmission Element (HITE).
Maintenance Outage
An Outage initiated manually to remove equipment from service to perform work on components that could be postponed briefly but that is required to prevent a potential Forced Outage and that cannot be postponed until the next Planned Outage.  Maintenance Outages are classified as follows:
(1)	Level 1 Maintenance Outage – Equipment that must be removed from service within 24 hours to prevent a potential Forced Outage;
(2)	Level II Maintenance Outage – Equipment that must be removed from service within seven days to prevent a potential Forced Outage; and
(3)	Level III Maintenance Outage – Equipment that must be removed from service within 30 days to prevent a potential Forced Outage.
Opportunity Outage  
An Outage that may be accepted by ERCOT when a specific Resource is Off-Line due to an Outage. 
Planned Outage
An Outage that is planned and scheduled in advance with ERCOT, other than a Maintenance Outage or Opportunity Outage.
Rescheduled Outage
An Outage on a High Impact Transmission Element (HITE) that was originally submitted as a Planned Outage with more than 90-days’ notice and approved, but is then rescheduled due to withdrawal of approval by ERCOT of the original Planned Outage or subsequent Rescheduled Outage(s).
Simple Transmission Outage
A Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage of any Transmission Element in the Network Operations Model such that when the Transmission Element is removed from its normal service, absent a Forced Outage of other Transmission Elements, the Outage does not cause a topology change in the LMP calculation and thus cannot cause any LMPs to change with or without the Transmission Element that is suffering the Outage.  
Outage Adjustment Evaluation (OAE)
A study performed by ERCOT when it forecasts an inability to meet applicable reliability standards and has exercised all other reasonable options and needs to delay or to cancel and reschedule one or more Resource Outages, unless the issue is due to transmission reliability and is limited to Resources at a single site.
Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA)
An adjustment to delay or to cancel and reschedule a Resource’s Planned Outage that has already been accepted or approved by ERCOT.  The OSA is issued by ERCOT to the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing the Resource.
Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) Period
The portion of a Resource’s Planned Outage schedule for which ERCOT issues an OSA.  The OSA Period will commence at the planned start time for the Resource Outage, based on the Resource’s Planned Outage existing in the Outage Scheduler at the time the Outage Adjustment Evaluation (OAE) is performed, and will end at the time stated in the OSA.
Outage Scheduler
The application that Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) or Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) use to submit Notification of Outages or requests for Outages to ERCOT for approval, acceptance, or rejection.  
[NPRR857:  Replace the above definition “Outage Scheduler” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Outage Scheduler
The application that Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), or Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) use to submit Notification of Outages or requests for Outages to ERCOT for approval, acceptance, or rejection.
Output Schedule
The self-scheduled output for every five-minute interval of a Resource provided by a QSE before the execution of SCED.
P
[Back to Top]
Partial Blackout (see Blackout)
Participating Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder (see Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder)
Peak Load Season
Summer months are June, July, August, and September; winter months are December, January, and February.
PhotoVoltaic (PV)
Of or pertaining to a material or device in which electricity is generated as a result of exposure to light. 
PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR) (see Resource Category)
PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP)
The generation in MWh per hour from a PVGR that could be generated from all available units of that Resource allocated from the 80% probability of exceedance of the Total ERCOT PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (TEPPF).
Physical Responsive Capability (PRC)
A representation of the total amount of frequency responsive Resource capability On-Line in Real-Time.
Planned Outage (see Outage)
Planning Reserve Margin (PRM)
The net of total capacity for the Peak Load Season, less firm peak Load for the Peak Load Season, divided by the firm peak Load for the Peak Load Season (expressed as a percentage).
[NPRR1077:  Insert the following definition “Point of Common Coupling (POCC)” upon system implementation:]
Point of Common Coupling (POCC)
Any point where a Distribution Service Provider’s (DSP’s) facilities are connected to the Facilities of a Customer or a Generation Entity.
Point of Interconnection (POI)
Any physical location where a Generation Entity’s Facilities electrically connect to the Transmission Service Provider’s (TSP’s) Facilities.
[NPRR1098:  Replace the above definition “Point of Interconnection (POI)” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Point of Interconnection (POI)
Any physical location where a Generation Entity’s Facilities or any Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Facilities electrically connect to a Transmission Service Provider’s (TSP’s) Facilities.
Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB)
For a Generation Resource connecting to the ERCOT Transmission System through a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) substation, the Electrical Bus at that TSP substation that is electrically closest to the Generation Resource’s Point of Interconnection (POI), or any electrically equivalent Electrical Bus in that substation.  For a Generation Resource connecting to the ERCOT Transmission System through a non-TSP substation, the Electrical Bus at that non-TSP substation that is electrically closest to the Generation Resource’s POI, or any electrically equivalent Electrical Bus in that substation.
[NPRR1098:  Replace the above definition “Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB)” with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB)
For a Generation Resource or Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) connecting to the ERCOT Transmission System through a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) substation, the Electrical Bus at that TSP substation that is electrically closest to the Generation Resource’s or DC Tie’s Point of Interconnection (POI), or any electrically equivalent Electrical Bus in that substation.  For a Generation Resource connecting to the ERCOT Transmission System through a non-TSP substation, the Electrical Bus at that non-TSP substation that is electrically closest to the Generation Resource’s POI, or any electrically equivalent Electrical Bus in that substation.
Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation (see Congestion Revenue Right (CRR))
Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation with Links to an Option (see Congestion Revenue Right (CRR))
Point-to-Point (PTP) Option (see Congestion Revenue Right (CRR))
Point-to-Point (PTP) Option Award Charge
A charge placed on each PTP Option bid awarded where the clearing price for the PTP Option bid awarded is less than the Minimum PTP Option Bid Price as further described in Section 7.7.1, Determination of the PTP Option Award Charge.
Power System Stabilizer (PSS)
A device that is installed on Generation Resources to maintain synchronous operation of the ERCOT System under transient conditions.  
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Power System Stabilizer (PSS)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Power System Stabilizer (PSS)
A device or control that is installed on a synchronous machine to provide oscillation dampening support to the ERCOT System under transient conditions.
Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Right (PCRR) Nomination Year
The calendar year that is three years after the year containing a PCRR nomination process.
Pre-Contingency Action Plan (PCAP) (see Constraint Management Plan)
Premise
A Service Delivery Point or combination of Service Delivery Points that is assigned a single ESI ID for Settlement and registration.
Presidio Exception
The losses associated with keeping the 69 kV line from the Gonzales substation to the ERCOT BLT Point at Presidio constantly energized in order to maintain connectivity and allow for rapid response to contingencies impacting the reliability for Customers in the Presidio area when there is no BLT of Load from the ERCOT Control Area to a non-ERCOT Control Area.  The TDSP responsible for the Presidio BLT Point metering shall witness and maintain records of meter verification no less than every four years.
Primary Frequency Response
The immediate proportional increase or decrease in real power output provided by Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs), Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), and the natural real power dampening response provided by Load in response to system frequency deviations.  This response is in the direction that stabilizes frequency.
[NPRR995:  Replace the above definition “Primary Frequency Response” with the following upon system implementation:]
Primary Frequency Response
The immediate proportional increase or decrease in real power output provided by Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs), Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage Systems (SOTESSs), Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), and the natural real power dampening response provided by Load in response to system frequency deviations.  This response is in the direction that stabilizes frequency.
Prior Agreement
Any previous Agreement between an Entity, its Affiliate, or its predecessor in interest and ERCOT about performance under the ERCOT Protocols.
Private Microgrid Island (PMI)
A temporary configuration in which a Resource provides electricity to Customer Load through privately-owned transmission and/or distribution infrastructure when the Resource and Customer Load are disconnected from the ERCOT System due to an Outage on the transmission and/or distribution system.   
Private Use Network
An electric network connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid that contains Load that is not directly metered by ERCOT (i.e., Load that is typically netted with internal generation).  
Program Administrator
The Entity approved by the PUCT that is responsible for carrying out the administrative responsibilities for the Renewable Energy Credit Program as set forth in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.
Protected Information
Information protected from disclosure as described in Section 1, Overview.
Provider of Last Resort (POLR)
The designated CR as defined in the P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.43, Provider of Last Resort (POLR), for default Customer service, and as further described in Section 15.1, Customer Switch of Competitive Retailer.
Q
[Back to Top]
Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)
A Market Participant that is qualified by ERCOT in accordance with Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, for communication with ERCOT for Resource Entities and Load Serving Entities (LSEs) and for settling payments and charges with ERCOT. 
Data Agent-Only Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)
A limited type of QSE that is registered with ERCOT pursuant to Section 16.2.1.2, Data Agent-Only Qualified Scheduling Entities, for the sole purpose of acting as an agent for a QSE that meets all the criteria of Section 16.2.1, Criteria for Qualification as a Qualified Scheduling Entity, relating to the exchange of certain communications and data over the ERCOT Wide Area Network (WAN), as provided in Nodal Operating Guide Section 7, Telemetry and Communication.
Master Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)
A QSE designated by Resource Entities owning or controlling a Generation Resource that has been split into two or more Split Generation Resources as set forth in Section 3.8.1, Split Generation Resources, that provides ERCOT data and dispatch on total Generation Resource basis in accordance with the Protocols. 
Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Clawback Interval 
Any QSE-Committed Interval that is part of a contiguous block that includes at least one RUC-Committed Hour unless it is:
(a)	QSE-committed in the COP and Trades Snapshot before the first RUC instruction for any RUC-Committed Hour in that contiguous block;  
(b)	Part of a contiguous block of a QSE-Committed Intervals, at least one of which was committed by the QSE in the COP and Trades Snapshot before the RUC instruction described in paragraph (a) above; or
(c)	Part of a contiguous block of QSE-Committed Intervals, at least one of which is a RUC Buy-Back Hour.
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Clawback Interval” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Clawback Interval 
Any QSE-Committed Interval that is part of a contiguous block that includes at least one Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-Committed Hour unless it is:
(a)	QSE-committed in the RUC Snapshot before the first RUC instruction for any RUC-Committed Hour in that contiguous block;  
(b)	Part of a contiguous block of a QSE-Committed Intervals, at least one of which was committed by the QSE in the RUC Snapshot before the RUC instruction described in paragraph (a) above; or
(c)	Part of a contiguous block of QSE-Committed Intervals, at least one of which is a RUC Buy-Back Hour.
Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)-Committed Interval
A Settlement Interval for which the QSE for a Resource has committed the Resource without a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) instruction to commit it.  For Settlement purposes, a Resource with a Current Operating Plan (COP) Resource Status of OFFQS will not be considered as QSE-committed for the Settlement Interval unless that interval has been committed due to a Day-Ahead Market (DAM) award for energy.
Qualifying Facility (QF)
A qualifying small power production facility or qualifying cogeneration facility under regulatory qualification criteria as defined in 16 U.S.C.A. § 796(17)(C) and (18)(B).
Qualifying Force Majeure Provision 
A force majeure provision that provides that:
(a)	Before the pipeline or storage provider may suspend its performance due to force majeure, the pipeline or storage provider must exercise due diligence and incur reasonable cost to prevent or overcome the event of force majeure;
(b)	The pipeline or storage provider will not be entitled to the benefit of force majeure to the extent its performance is affected solely by: its own negligence or willful misconduct; economic hardship (including the pipeline or storage provider’s ability to sell natural gas, natural gas transportation service, or natural gas storage service at a higher or more advantageous fee than the fee provided in the contract); breakdown, failure, freezing or breakage of, or the necessity for making repairs or alterations to, any facilities or equipment caused by a failure to properly maintain such facilities or equipment that is reasonably foreseeable; or a failure to satisfy weatherization requirements under applicable law;
(c)	Upon declaring force majeure, the pipeline or storage provider must provide notice and reasonably full details describing such force majeure in ‎writing to the Generation Entity; and 
(d)	Within ten days of a notice by a party of an event or occurrence of force majeure, the unaffected party shall have the right, at its own expense and upon reasonable notice to the other party, to audit and examine copies of the relevant portion of the records and recordings of the other party to the extent reasonably necessary to verify the full details of the event or occurrence of force majeure as described in the notice.
R
[Back to Top]
Rating
Conductor/Transformer 2-Hour Rating
The two-hour MVA rating of the conductor or transformer only, excluding substation terminal equipment in series with a conductor or transformer, at the applicable ambient temperature.  The conductor or transformer can operate at this rating for two hours without violation of National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) clearances or equipment failure.
Emergency Rating 
The two-hour MVA rating of a Transmission Element, including substation terminal equipment in series with a conductor or transformer, at the applicable ambient temperature.  The Transmission Element can operate at this rating for two hours without violation of NESC clearances or equipment failure.
15-Minute Rating
The 15-minute MVA rating of a Transmission Element, including substation terminal equipment in series with a conductor or transformer, at the applicable ambient temperature and with a step increase from a prior loading up to 90% of the Normal Rating.  The Transmission Element can operate at this rating for 15 minutes, assuming its pre-contingency loading up to 90% of the Normal Rating limit at the applicable ambient temperature, without violation of NESC clearances or equipment failure.  This rating takes advantage of the time delay associated with heating of a conductor or transformer following a sudden increase in current.  
Normal Rating
The continuous MVA rating of a Transmission Element, including substation terminal equipment in series with a conductor or transformer, at the applicable ambient temperature.  The Transmission Element can operate at this rating indefinitely without damage, or violation of NESC clearances.  
Relay Loadability Rating
The MVA rating below which no load-responsive phase-protection relay tripping is expected.  The Relay Loadability Rating is calculated based on the trip points of protective devices at the equipment terminals of the affected Transmission Element under a set of operating criteria defined by the Transmission Element owner.
Reactive Power
The product of voltage and the out-of-phase component of alternating current.  Reactive Power, usually measured in MVAr, is produced by capacitors, overexcited generators and other capacitive devices and is absorbed by reactors, under-excited generators and other inductive devices.
Real-Time
The current instant in time.
[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Real-Time Market (RTM)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Real-Time Market (RTM)
A Real-Time, co-optimized market in the Operating Day for Ancillary Service capacity and energy.
Real-Time Market (RTM) Energy Bid
A proposal to buy energy in the RTM at a monotonically non-increasing price with increasing quantity.
[NPRR1188:  Delete the above definition “Real-Time Market (RTM) Energy Bid” upon system implementation.]
Real-Time Market (RTM) Final Statement (see Settlement Statement)
Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Statement (see Settlement Statement)
Real-Time Market (RTM) Resettlement Statement (see Settlement Statement)
Real-Time Market (RTM) True-Up Statement (see Settlement Statement)
Real-Time Off-Line Reserve Price Adder
A Real-Time price adder that captures the value of the opportunity costs of Off-Line reserves based on the defined ORDC as detailed in Section 6.7.5, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Payment or Charge.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Real-Time Off-Line Reserve Price Adder” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price
A Real-Time price for each 15-minute Settlement Interval reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that is calculated from the Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder
A Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for each Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) process as detailed in Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder, and Section 6.7.5, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Payment or Charge.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder
A Real-Time price adder that captures the value of the opportunity costs of On-Line reserves based on the defined ORDC as detailed in Section 6.7.5.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]

[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price
Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for Ancillary Service
A Real-Time price for each 15-minute Settlement Interval determined for each Ancillary Service reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on Ancillary service prices, which is calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Ancillary Service.
Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for Energy
A Real-Time price for each 15-minute Settlement Interval reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that is calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy.

[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder
Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Ancillary Service 
A Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on prices for each Ancillary Service for each Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) process, as detailed in Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adders.
Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy
A Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for each Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) process as detailed in Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adders.
Real-Time Reserve Price for Off-Line Reserves
A Real-Time price calculated for Off-Line reserves for each 15-minute Settlement Interval using the data and formulas as detailed in Section 6.7.5.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Real-Time Reserve Price for Off-Line Reserves” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line Reserves
A Real-Time price calculated for On-Line reserves for each 15-minute Settlement Interval using the data and formulas as detailed in Section 6.7.5.
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line Reserves” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]

[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Real-Time System-Wide Offer Cap (RTSWCAP)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Real-Time System-Wide Offer Cap (RTSWCAP)
The RTSWCAP shall be determined in accordance with Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules.
Redacted Network Operations Model 
A version of the Network Operations Model, redacted to exclude Private Use Network Load data and the following defined Resource Parameters as applicable:  
(a)	Normal Ramp Rate curve; 
(b)	Emergency Ramp Rate curve; 
(c)	Minimum On-Line time;
(d)	Minimum Off-Line time;
(e)	Hot start time;
(f)	Intermediate start time; 
(g)	Cold start time;
(h)	Maximum weekly starts;
(i)	Maximum On-Line time; 
(j)	Maximum daily starts;
(k)	Maximum weekly energy;
(l)	Hot-to-intermediate time;
(m)	Intermediate-to-cold time;
(n)	Minimum interruption time;
(o)	Minimum restoration time;
(p)	Maximum weekly deployments;
(q)	Maximum interruption time;
(r)	Maximum daily deployments;
(s)	Minimum notice time; and
(t)	Maximum deployment time.   
Regional Planning Group (RPG) Project Review
The evaluation of a proposed transmission project pursuant to the process described in Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.
Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) (see Regulation Service)
Regulation Service
An Ancillary Service that consists of either Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) or Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up).
Fast Responding Regulation Service (FRRS)
A subset of Regulation Service that consists of either Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down) or Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up).  Except where otherwise specified, all requirements that apply to Regulation Service also apply to FRRS.
[NPRR1013 and NPRR1014:  Delete the above definition “Fast Responding Regulation Service (FRRS)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project; or upon system implementation of NPRR1014, respectively.]
Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down)
An Ancillary Service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes in system frequency.  Such capacity is the amount available below any Base Point but above the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) of a Generation Resource and may be called on to change output as necessary throughout the range of capacity available to maintain proper system frequency.  A Load Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to increase and decrease Load as deployed within its Ancillary Service Schedule for Reg-Down below the Load Resource’s Maximum Power Consumption (MPC) limit.
[NPRR1013 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition “Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project; or upon system implementation of NPRR1014, respectively:]
Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down)
An Ancillary Service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes in system frequency.  Such capacity is the amount available below any Base Point but above the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) of a Generation Resource and may be called on to change output as necessary throughout the range of capacity available to maintain proper system frequency.  An Energy Storage Resource (ESR) providing Reg-Down must be able to modify its energy withdrawal or injection as deployed for Reg-Down across the full range of capacity available to maintain proper system frequency.  A Load Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to increase and decrease Load as deployed within its Ancillary Service award for Reg-Down below the Load Resource’s Maximum Power Consumption (MPC) limit.
Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down)
A subset of Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) in which the participating Resource provides Reg-Down capacity to ERCOT within 60 cycles of either its receipt of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction or its detection of a trigger frequency independent of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  Except where otherwise specified, all requirements that apply to Reg-Down also apply to FRRS-Down.
[NPRR1013 and NPRR1014:  Delete the above definition “Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project; or upon system implementation of NPRR1014, respectively.]
Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up)
An Ancillary Service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes in system frequency.  Such capacity is the amount available above any Base Point but below the High Sustained Limit (HSL) of a Generation Resource and may be called on to change output as necessary throughout the range of capacity available to maintain proper system frequency.  A Load Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to increase and decrease Load as deployed within its Ancillary Service Schedule for Reg-Up above the Load Resource’s Low Power Consumption (LPC) limit.  
[NPRR1013 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition “Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project; or upon system implementation of NPRR1014, respectively:]
Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up)
An Ancillary Service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes in system frequency.  Such capacity is the amount available above any Base Point but below the High Sustained Limit (HSL) of a Generation Resource and may be called on to change output as necessary throughout the range of capacity available to maintain proper system frequency.  An Energy Storage Resource (ESR) providing Reg-Up must be able to modify its energy withdrawal or injection as deployed for Reg-Up across the full range of capacity available to maintain proper system frequency.  A Load Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to increase and decrease Load as deployed within its Ancillary Service award for Reg-Up above the Load Resource’s Low Power Consumption (LPC) limit.
Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up)
A subset of Reg-Up in which the participating Resource provides Reg-Up capacity to ERCOT within 60 cycles of either its receipt of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction or its detection of a trigger frequency independent of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  Except where otherwise specified, all requirements that apply to Reg-Up also apply to FRRS-Up.
[NPRR1013 and NPRR1014:  Delete the above definition “Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project; or upon system implementation of NPRR1014, respectively.]
Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) (see Regulation Service)  
Relay Loadability Rating (see Rating)
Reliability Monitor
An Entity selected by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) to monitor compliance with all state reliability-related laws, rules, and ERCOT procedures, including Protocols, processes, and any other operating standards applicable to the ERCOT Region.
Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Service
An Ancillary Service provided from an RMR Unit under an Agreement with ERCOT.
Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit
A Generation Resource operated under the terms of an Agreement with ERCOT that would not otherwise be operated except that it is necessary to provide voltage support, stability or management of localized transmission constraints under Credible Single Contingency criteria where market solutions do not exist.
Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) 
A process to ensure that there is adequate Resource capacity and Ancillary Service capacity committed in the proper locations to serve ERCOT forecasted Load. 
Reliability Unit Commitment for Additional Capacity (RUCAC)-Hour
An Operating Hour for which a Combined Cycle Generation Resource is Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)-committed and receives a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) instruction from ERCOT to transition to a configuration with additional capacity above the configuration that was QSE-committed.
Reliability Unit Commitment for Additional Capacity (RUCAC)-Interval
A Settlement Interval within the hour for which there is a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) instruction from ERCOT for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource to transition to a configuration with additional capacity above the configuration that was Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)-committed.
Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Buy-Back Hour
An Operating Hour for which a Resource that is not a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit has been committed to come On-Line by a Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) or Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) process and the Resource’s Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) has chosen to opt out of RUC Settlement in accordance with Section 5.5.2, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process.
Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Cancellation
An ERCOT instruction, prior to breaker close, to cancel a previously issued RUC instruction.
Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-Committed Hour
An Operating Hour for which a RUC has committed a Resource to be On-Line and the QSE has not designated a RUC Buy-Back Hour.
Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-Committed Interval
A Settlement Interval for which there is a RUC instruction to commit a Resource. 
[NPRR1013:  Insert the following definition “Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Snapshot” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Snapshot
A record of a Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) Capacity Trades, Energy Trades, Ancillary Service Positions, Ancillary Service Offers, Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) imports and most recent Current Operating Plan (COP) at the time the snapshot is taken.
Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Study Period
As defined under Section 5.1, Introduction.
Remedial Action Plan (RAP) (see Constraint Management Plan)
Remedial Action Scheme (RAS)
A scheme designed to detect predetermined ERCOT System conditions and automatically take corrective actions on areas of the ERCOT System that are part of the Bulk Electric System, as that term is defined in the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Glossary of Terms Used in NERC Reliability Standards.  These corrective actions include, but are not limited to, adjusting or tripping generation (MW and MVAr), tripping Load, or reconfiguring a System(s) to maintain a secure system.  RASs do not include under-frequency or under voltage Load shedding, the isolation of fault conditions, or out-of-step relaying (not designed as an integral part of an RAS).  RASs shall not be implemented on Interconnection Reliability Operating Limits (IROLs).  Additional criteria that are excluded from being classified as RAS are outlined in the Operating Guides.
Limited Impact Remedial Action Scheme (RAS)
A RAS that by inadvertent operation or failure to operate does not cause or contribute to ERCOT System cascading, uncontrolled separation, angular instability, voltage instability, voltage collapse, or unacceptably damped oscillations.
Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) Entity
Any Market Participant that owns Facilities that are included in a RAS.
Renewable Energy Credit (REC)
A tradable instrument that represents all of the renewable attributes associated with one MWh of production from a certified renewable generator.  
Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Account
An account maintained by ERCOT for the purpose of tracking the production, sale, transfer, purchase, and retirement of RECs or Compliance Premiums by a REC Account Holder.
Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Account Holder
An Entity registered with ERCOT to participate in the REC Trading Program.
Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Trading Program
The REC Trading Program, as described in Section 14, State of Texas Renewable Energy Credit Trading Program, and P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.
Renewable Production Potential (RPP)
The maximum generation in MWh per interval from an Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) that could be generated from all available units of that Resource.  The RPP depends on the renewable energy that can be generated from the available units (wind, solar radiation, or run-of-river water supply), current environmental conditions and the energy conversion characteristics of each unit. 
Repowered Facility
An existing facility that has been modernized or upgraded to use renewable energy technology to produce electricity consistent with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  
Rescheduled Outage (see Outage)
Reserve Discount Factor (RDF)
A representation of the average amount of system-wide capability that, for whatever reason, is historically undeliverable during periods of high system demand.  The RDF will be verified by ERCOT and then approved by the Reliability and Operations Subcommittee (ROS).
Resource
The term is used to refer to an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), a Generation Resource, or a Load Resource.  The term “Resource” used by itself in these Protocols does not include a Settlement Only Generator (SOG) or an Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resource.
[NPRR995:  Replace the above definition “Resource” with the following upon system implementation:]
Resource
The term is used to refer to an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), a Generation Resource, or a Load Resource.  The term “Resource” used by itself in these Protocols does not include a Settlement Only Generator (SOG), Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS), or an Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resource.
Energy Storage Resource (ESR)
An Energy Storage System (ESS) registered with ERCOT for the purpose of providing energy and/or Ancillary Service to the ERCOT System.   
[NPRR1029:  Insert the following definition “DC-Coupled Resource upon system implementation:]
DC-Coupled Resource
A type of Energy Storage Resource (ESR) in which an Energy Storage System (ESS) is combined with wind and/or solar generation in the same modeled generation station and interconnected at the same Point of Interconnection (POI), and where these technologies are interconnected within the site using direct current (DC) equipment.  The combined technologies are then connected to the ERCOT System using the same direct current-to-alternating current (DC-to-AC) inverter(s).  To be classified as a DC-Coupled Resource, the generator(s) and ESS(s) at a site must meet the following conditions: 
(1)	The ESS component of the Resource must have a nameplate rating of at least ten MW and ten MWh, or the MW rating must equal or exceed 50% of the nameplate MW rating of the inverter; and  
(2)	All intermittent renewable generators must meet the conditions for aggregation stated in paragraph (13) of Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, except to the extent any such condition requires the generator to be a Resource.
Distribution Energy Storage Resource (DESR)
An Energy Storage Resource (ESR) connected to the Distribution System that is either: 
(1)	Greater than ten MW and not registered with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) as a self-generator; or
(2)	Greater than one MW that chooses to register as a Resource with ERCOT to participate in the ERCOT markets.
[NPRR1246:  Insert the following definition “Transmission Energy Storage Resource (TESR)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Transmission Energy Storage Resource (TESR)
An Energy Storage Resource (ESR) connected to the ERCOT transmission system that is either:
(1)	Greater than ten MW and not registered with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) as a self-generator; or
(2)	Greater than one MW that chooses to register as a Resource with ERCOT to participate in the ERCOT markets.
Generation Resource
A generator capable of providing energy or Ancillary Service to the ERCOT System and is registered with ERCOT as a Generation Resource.  
Distribution Generation Resource (DGR)
A Generation Resource connected to the Distribution System that is either: 
(1)	Greater than ten MW and not registered with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) as a self-generator; or
(2)	Greater than one MW that chooses to register as a Generation Resource to participate in the ERCOT markets.  
Transmission Generation Resource (TGR)
A Generation Resource connected to the ERCOT transmission system that is either: 
(1)	Greater than ten MW and not registered with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) as a self-generator; or 
(2)	Greater than one MW that chooses to register as a Generation Resource to participate in the ERCOT markets.  
Load Resource
A Load capable of providing Ancillary Service to the ERCOT System and/or energy in the form of Demand response and registered with ERCOT as a Load Resource.
Aggregate Load Resource (ALR)
A Controllable Load Resource (CLR) that is an aggregation of individual metered sites, each of which has less than ten MW of Demand response capability and all of which are located within a single Load Zone.
[NPRR1188:  Delete the above definition “Aggregate Load Resource (ALR)” upon system implementation.]
Controllable Load Resource (CLR)
A Load Resource capable of controllably reducing or increasing consumption under Dispatch control by ERCOT.
[NPRR1188:  Insert the definition “Aggregate Load Resource (ALR)” below upon system implementation:]
Aggregate Load Resource (ALR)
A Controllable Load Resource (CLR) that is an aggregation of individual metered sites, each of which has less than ten MW of Demand response capability and all of which are located within a single Load Zone.
Settlement Only Generator (SOG)
A generator that is settled for exported energy only, but may not participate in the Ancillary Services market, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC), Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED), or make energy offers.  These units are comprised of:
[NPRR995:  Delete the above definition “Settlement Only Generator (SOG)” upon system implementation.]
Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG)
A generator that is connected to the Distribution System with a rating of:
(1)	One MW or less that chooses to register as an SODG; or 
(2)	Greater than one and up to ten MW that is capable of providing a net export to the ERCOT System and does not register as a Distribution Generation Resource (DGR).
SODGs must be registered with ERCOT in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, and will be modeled in ERCOT systems for reliability in accordance with Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads. 
[NPRR995:  Delete the above definition “Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG)” upon system implementation.]
Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG)
A generator that is connected to the ERCOT transmission system with a rating of ten MW or less and is registered with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) as a power generation company.  SOTGs must be registered with ERCOT in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, and may be modeled in ERCOT systems for reliability in accordance with Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads.
[NPRR995:  Delete the above definition “Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG)” upon system implementation.]
Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG)
A generator that is connected to the ERCOT transmission system with a rating of one MW or more and is registered with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) as a self-generator.  SOTSGs must be registered with ERCOT in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, and will be modeled in ERCOT systems for reliability in accordance with Section 3.10.7.3, Modeling of Private Use Networks.
[NPRR995:  Delete the above definition “Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG)” upon system implementation.]
Resource Attribute
Specific qualities associated with various Resources (i.e., specific aspects of a Resource or the services the Resource is qualified to provide).
Aggregate Generation Resource (AGR)
A Generation Resource that is an aggregation of generators, with the exception of Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) pursuant to paragraph (13) of Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, each of which is less than 20 MW in output, which share identical operational characteristics and are located behind the same Main Power Transformer (MPT).
Black Start Resource
A Generation Resource under contract with ERCOT to provide Black Start Service (BSS).
Combined Cycle Train
The combinations of gas turbines and steam turbines in an electric generation plant that employs more than one thermodynamic cycle.  For example, a Combined Cycle Train refers to the combination of gas turbine generators (operating on the Brayton Cycle) with turbine exhaust waste heat boilers and steam turbine generators (operating on the Rankine Cycle) for the production of electric power.  In the ERCOT market, Combined Cycle Trains are each registered as a plant that can operate as a Generation Resource in one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resource configurations.
Decommissioned Generation Resource
A Generation Resource for which a Resource Entity has submitted a Notification of Suspension of Operations or a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation, for which ERCOT has declined to execute a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Agreement, and which has been decommissioned and permanently retired.
Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR)
A Resource that has been designated by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), and approved by ERCOT, as a DSR status-type and that follows a DSR Load.
[NPRR1000:  Delete the definition “Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR)” above upon system implementation.]
Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR)
A Generation Resource that can only produce energy from variable, uncontrollable Resources, such as wind, solar, or run-of-the-river hydroelectricity.
Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) Group
A group of two or more IRRs whose performance in responding to Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) Dispatch Instructions will be assessed as an aggregate for Generation Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP) and Base Point Deviation.  An IRR Group cannot contain any IRRs that are Split Generation Resources.  Additionally, only IRRs that have the same Resource Node can be mapped to an IRR Group.  Resource Entities can choose to group IRRs and shall provide the grouping information in a timely manner for ERCOT review prior to the scheduled database loads.
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) Group” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) Group
A group of two or more IRRs whose performance in responding to Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) Dispatch Instructions will be assessed as an aggregate for Generation Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP) and Set Point Deviation.  An IRR Group cannot contain any IRRs that are Split Generation Resources.  Additionally, only IRRs that have the same Resource Node can be mapped to an IRR Group.  Resource Entities can choose to group IRRs and shall provide the grouping information in a timely manner for ERCOT review prior to the scheduled database loads.
Inverter-Based Resource (IBR)
A Resource that is connected to the ERCOT System either completely or partially through a power electronic converter interface.
Mothballed Generation Resource 
A Generation Resource for which a Resource Entity has submitted a Notification of Suspension of Operations, for which ERCOT has declined to execute a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Agreement, and which has not been decommissioned and retired. 
[NPRR1246:  Insert the following definition “Mothballed Energy Storage Resource” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Mothballed Energy Storage Resource (ESR) 
An ESR for which a Resource Entity has submitted a Notification of Suspension of Operations, for which ERCOT has declined to execute a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Agreement, and which has not been decommissioned and retired.
Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR)
A Generation Resource that in its cold-temperature state can come On-Line within ten minutes of receiving ERCOT notice and has passed an ERCOT QSGR test that establishes an amount of capacity that can be deployed within a ten-minute period.
Split Generation Resource
Where a Generation Resource has been split to function as two or more independent Generation Resources in accordance with Section 10.3.2.1, Generation Resource Meter Splitting, and Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, each such functionality independent Generation Resource is a Split Generation Resource.
Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR)
A Generation Resource that can be connected to either the ERCOT Transmission Grid or a non-ERCOT Control Area.
Resource Category
The generation technology category designated for a Generation Resource in its Resource Registration documentation.
Combined Cycle Generation Resource
A specified configuration of physical Generation Resources (gas and steam turbines), with a distinct set of operating parameters and physical constraints, in a Combined Cycle Train registered with ERCOT.
PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR)
A Generation Resource that is powered by PhotoVoltaic (PV) equipment exposed to light.  PV equipment may be aggregated together to form a PVGR as set forth in paragraph (13) of Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads.
Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR)
A Generation Resource that is powered by wind.  Wind turbines may be aggregated together to form a WGR as set forth in paragraph (13) of Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads.
Resource Commissioning Date
The date on which ERCOT declares that a Resource has completed all qualification testing administered by ERCOT as part of the Resource Interconnection process so that a Resource is approved for participation in ERCOT market operations.
Resource Connectivity Node (see Electrical Bus)
Resource Entity
An Entity that owns or controls a Generation Resource, an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), a Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or a Load Resource and is registered with ERCOT as a Resource Entity.
[NPRR995:  Replace the above definition “Resource Entity” with the following upon system implementation:]
Resource Entity
An Entity that owns or controls a Generation Resource, an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), a Settlement Only Generator (SOG), a Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS), or a Load Resource and is registered with ERCOT as a Resource Entity.
Resource ID (RID)
A unique identifier assigned to each ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) meter.  The RID for a SOG meter may be identical to the SOG’s Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID).
Resource Node 
Either a logical construct that creates a virtual pricing point required to model a Combined-Cycle Configuration or an Electrical Bus defined in the Network Operations Model, at which a Settlement Point Price for a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is calculated and used in Settlement.  All Resource Nodes shall be identified in accordance with the Other Binding Document titled “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”
[NPRR1188:  Replace the definition “Resource Node” above with the following upon system implementation:]
Resource Node 
Either a logical construct that creates a virtual pricing point required to model a Combined-Cycle Configuration or an Electrical Bus defined in the Network Operations Model, at which a Settlement Point Price for a Generation Resource, Controllable Load Resource (CLR) that is not an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR), or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is calculated and used in Settlement.  All Resource Nodes shall be identified in accordance with the Other Binding Document titled “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”
Resource Parameters
Resource-specific parameters required for use in ERCOT business processes.  This is a subset of Resource Registration data that can be changed in the MIS in Real-Time.  
Resource Registration
Provision of information required by ERCOT to register Generation Resources, Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), Load Resources, and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).
[NPRR995:  Replace the above definition “Resource Registration” with the following upon system implementation:]
Resource Registration
Provision of information required by ERCOT to register Generation Resources, Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), Load Resources, Settlement Only Energy Storage Systems (SOESSs), and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).
Resource Status  
The operational state of a Resource as provided in Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP). 
Responsive Reserve (RRS)
An Ancillary Service that provides operating reserves that are intended to:
(a) 	Arrest frequency decay within the first few seconds of a significant frequency deviation on the ERCOT Transmission Grid using Primary Frequency Response, Fast Frequency Response (FFR), and interruptible Load; 
(b)	After the first few seconds of a significant frequency deviation, help arrest and stabilize frequency; and
(c)	Provide energy or continued Load interruption during the implementation of the Energy Emergency Alert (EEA).
Retail Business Day (see Business Day)
Retail Business Hour
Any hour within a Retail Business Day.
Retail Electric Provider (REP)
As defined in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.5, Definitions, an Entity that sells electric energy to retail Customers in Texas but does not own or operate generation assets and is not an MOU or EC.  
Retail Entity
An MOU, generation and transmission cooperative or distribution cooperative that offers Customer Choice; REP; or IOU that has not unbundled pursuant to Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA), TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 39.051 (Vernon 1998 & Supp. 2007). 
Return of Settlement Funds (RSF)
Procedures, outlined in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds, for returning to ERCOT the overpayment of Settlement funds.
Revenue Quality Meter
For EPS Meters, a meter that complies with the Protocols and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide.  For TSP- or DSP-metered Entities, a meter that complies with Governmental Authority-approved meter standards, or the Protocols and the Operating Guides.
[NPRR1204:  Insert the following definition “Round Trip Efficiency” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Round Trip Efficiency
The percentage of electrical energy consumed by an Energy Storage Resource (ESR) (i.e., charging) that is later returned back to the grid (i.e., discharging).  The energy consumed by an ESR and energy returned back to the grid are measured at the Point of Interconnection (POI) or Point of Common Coupling (POCC).  The charging and discharging energy does not include the energy consumed by the auxiliary Load of the ESR.
S
[Back to Top]
Sampling
The process of selecting a subset of a population of Customers that statistically represents the entire population.
Scheduled Power Consumption
Expected Load, in MW, reported by a QSE for a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) pursuant to Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements.
Scheduled Power Consumption Snapshot
A snapshot, taken by ERCOT, of the Scheduled Power Consumption provided by the QSE for a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) at the end of the adjustment period and used in determining the CLR Desired Load.
Season or Seasonal
Winter months are December, January, and February; Spring months are March, April, and May; Summer months are June, July, and August; Fall months are September, October, and November.
Seasonal Operation Period
The period in which a Generation Resource has identified it is available for operation.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Seasonal Operation Period” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Seasonal Operation Period
The period in which a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) has identified it is available for operation.
Secure Private Network (SPN)
A network that is utilized to transmit Wide Area Network (WAN) Data between a Resource and WAN Participant, including any portions of the network that are owned or controlled by intermediate Entities.  The SPN must utilize network service vendors that provide a service level agreement for the network and the components of the SPN shall not utilize the Internet.  The SPN infrastructure must be designed to avoid outages relating to a Denial of Service (DoS) or Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks that may affect a Market Participant’s Internet-connected equipment.  Examples of an SPN would include dedicated connections such as Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS), Time Division Multiplexing Digital Signal 1 (TDM DS1), Metro Ethernet, or other networks that do not rely upon the Internet and are approved by ERCOT’s telecommunications and security groups. 
Securitization Default Balance 
The amount financed by ERCOT pursuant to Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) Chapter 39, Restructuring of Electric Utility Industry, Subchapter M, Winter Storm Uri Default Balance Financing, as authorized by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), but which may not exceed $800 million. 
Securitization Default Charge
Charges assessed to Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) and Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holders to repay the Securitization Default Balance.
Securitization Uplift Balance
The amount of money ERCOT securitized under Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) Chapter 39, Restructuring of Electric Utility Industry, Subchapter N, Winter Storm Uri Uplift Financing, pursuant to the Debt Obligation Order (DOO) issued by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) in PUCT Docket No. 52322, Application of Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. for a Debt Obligation Order to Finance Uplift Balances Under PURA Chapter 39, Subchapter N, and for a Good Cause Exception. 
Securitization Uplift Charge
A charge assessed to a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that represents an obligated Load Serving Entity (LSE) that will be used to pay the Securitization Uplift Balance, interest charges, and other financing related expenses.
Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity
An eligible entity under Public Utility Regulatory Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 39.653(d) (Vernon 1998 & Supp. 2007) (PURA) that qualified to opt-out of paying Securitization Uplift Charges, as documented through the filing of opt-out notices in Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Project No. 52364, Proceeding for Eligible Entities to File an Opt Out Pursuant to PURA § 39.653(d) and for Load-Serving Entities to File Documentation of Exposure to Costs Pursuant to the Debt Obligation Order in Docket No. 52322, and as addressed in Findings of Fact 38-46 and Ordering Paragraphs 20-25 of the Debt Obligation Order in Docket No. 52322, Application of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. For a Debt Obligation Order to Finance Uplift Balances Under PURA Chapter 39, Subchapter N, for an Order Initiating a Parallel Docket, and for a Good Cause Exception.
Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED)
The determination of desirable Generation Resource output levels using Energy Offer Curves while considering State Estimator output for Load at transmission-level Electrical Buses, Generation Resource limits, and transmission limits to provide the least offer-based cost dispatch of the ERCOT System.
[NPRR1013, NPRR1014, and NPRR1188:  Replace the definition “Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1013; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1188:]
Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED)
A process for determining Ancillary Service awards and Base Point instructions for Resources using Energy Offer Curves, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, Energy Bid Curves, Ancillary Service Offers and Ancillary Service Demand Curves.  A SCED execution results in Ancillary Service awards and Base Point instructions that maximize bid-based revenues less offer-based costs while considering State Estimator output for Load at transmission-level Electrical Buses, Resource limits, and transmission limits to maximize bid-based revenues less offer-based costs.
Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity
The quantity of an Ancillary Service that a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) secures for itself using Resources represented by that QSE and Ancillary Service Trades.    
[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity
The quantity of an Ancillary Service that a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) secures for itself in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) using Resources represented by that QSE and Ancillary Service Trades.
Self-Limiting Facility
A modeled generation station that includes one or more Generation Resources, and/or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) with an established limit on the total MW Injection that is less than the total nameplate capacity of all Resource(s) within the Facility.  A Facility with one or more ESRs may also have an established limit on the MW Withdrawal that is less than the total nameplate MW Withdrawal rating of all ESR(s) within the facility.
[NPRR1077:  Replace the above definition “Self-Limiting Facility” with the following upon system implementation:]
Self-Limiting Facility
A modeled generation station that includes one or more Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), and/or Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) with an established limit on the total MW Injection that is less than the total nameplate capacity of all registered generators or Energy Storage Systems (ESSs) within the Facility.  A Facility with one or more ESRs may also have an established limit on the MW Withdrawal that is less than the total nameplate MW Withdrawal rating of all ESRs within the facility.
Self-Schedule
Information for Real-Time Settlement purposes that specifies the amount of energy supply at a specified source Settlement Point used to meet an energy obligation at a specified sink Settlement Point for the QSE submitting the information. 
Service Address 
The street address associated with an ESI ID as recorded in the Customer Registration Database.  This address shall conform to United States Postal Service Publication 28.
Service Delivery Point
The specific point on the system where electricity flows from the TSP or DSP to a Customer.
Settlement
The process used to resolve financial obligations between a Market Participant and ERCOT. 
Settlement Calendar
A calendar that provides information on when Settlement Statements and Invoices shall be posted, payment due dates, and dispute deadlines.  Additional information is provided in Section 9.1.2, Settlement Calendar.
Settlement Interval
The time period for which markets are settled. 
Settlement Invoice
A notice for payment or credit due rendered by ERCOT based on data contained in Settlement Statements.
Settlement Meter
Generation and end-use consumption meters used for allocation of ERCOT charges and wholesale and retail Settlements.
[NPRR995:  Insert the following definitions “Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS)”, “Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS)”, and “Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS)” upon system implementation:]
Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS)
An Energy Storage System (ESS) that is settled for imported/exported energy only, but may not participate in the Ancillary Services market, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC), Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED), or submit energy offers or bids.  These units are comprised of:
Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS)
An Energy Storage System (ESS) connected to the Distribution System with a rating of:
(1)	One MW or less that chooses to register as an SODESS; or 
(2)	Greater than one and up to ten MW that is capable of providing a net export to the ERCOT System and does not register as a Distribution Energy Storage Resource (DESR).
Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS)
An Energy Storage System (ESS) connected to the ERCOT transmission system with a rating of ten MW or less that has not been registered as an Energy Storage Resource (ESR).

[NPRR995:  Insert the following definitions “Settlement Only Generator (SOG)”, “Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG)”, “Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG)”, and “Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG)” upon system implementation:]
Settlement Only Generator (SOG)
A generator that is settled for exported energy only, but may not participate in the Ancillary Services market, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC), Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED), or submit energy offers.  These units are comprised of:
Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG)
A generator that is connected to the Distribution System with a rating of:
(1)	One MW or less that chooses to register as an SODG; or 
(2)	Greater than one and up to ten MW that is capable of providing a net export to the ERCOT System and does not register as a Distribution Generation Resource (DGR).
SODGs must be registered with ERCOT in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, and will be modeled in ERCOT systems for reliability in accordance with Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads. 
Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG)
A generator that is connected to the ERCOT transmission system with a rating of ten MW or less and is registered with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) as a power generation company.  SOTGs must be registered with ERCOT in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, and may be modeled in ERCOT systems for reliability in accordance with Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads.
Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG)
A generator that is connected to the ERCOT transmission system with a rating of one MW or more and is registered with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) as a self-generator.  SOTSGs must be registered with ERCOT in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, and will be modeled in ERCOT systems for reliability in accordance with Section 3.10.7.3, Modeling of Private Use Networks.
Settlement Only Generator (SOG) (see Resource)
Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) (see Resource)
Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG) (see Resource)
Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG) (see Resource)
Settlement Point
A Resource Node, Load Zone, or Hub.
Settlement Point Price 
A price calculated for a Settlement Point for each Settlement Interval using LMP data and the formulas detailed in Section 4.6, DAM Settlement, and Section 6.6, Settlement Calculations for the Real-Time Energy Operations. 
Settlement Quality Meter Data
Data that has been edited, validated, and is appropriate for ERCOT to use for Settlement and billing purposes.
Settlement Statement
A statement issued by ERCOT reflecting a breakdown of administrative, miscellaneous, and market charges for the applicable market services, as further described in Section 9.2, Settlement Statements for the Day-Ahead Market, and Section 9.5, Settlement Statements for Real-Time Market.
Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Resettlement Statement
The Settlement Statement issued for a particular DAM using corrected Settlement data, in accordance with Section 9.2.5, DAM Resettlement Statement.
Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Statement
The Settlement Statement issued for a particular DAM, as further described in Section 9.2.4, DAM Statement.
Real-Time Market (RTM) Final Statement
The RTM Settlement Statement issued at the end of the 55th day following the Operating Day, as described in Section 9.5.5, RTM Final Statement.
Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Statement
The first iteration of an RTM Settlement Statement issued for a particular Operating Day, as further described in Section 9.5.4, RTM Initial Statement.
Real-Time Market (RTM) Resettlement Statement
The RTM Settlement Statement using corrected Settlement data, in accordance with Section 9.5.6, RTM Resettlement Statement.
Real-Time Market (RTM) True-Up Statement
The RTM Settlement Statement issued 180 days following the Operating Day, as further described in Section 9.5.8, RTM True-Up Statement.
Shadow Price
A price for a commodity that measures the marginal value of this commodity; that is, the rate at which system costs could be decreased or increased by slightly increasing or decreasing, respectively, the amount of the commodity being made available.
Shift Factor
A measure of the flow on a particular Transmission Element due to a unit injection of power from a particular Electrical Bus to a fixed reference Electrical Bus.
Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF)
An ERCOT produced hourly 50% probability of exceedance forecast of the generation in MWh per hour from each PVGR that could be generated from all available units of that Resource.
Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF)
An ERCOT produced hourly 50% probability of exceedance forecast of the generation in MWh per hour from each WGR that could be generated from all available units of that Resource.
Simple Transmission Outage (see Outage)
Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC)
A tradable instrument that represents all of the renewable attributes associated with one MWh of production from a certified solar renewable generator.
[NPRR1250  Delete the above definition “Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC)” on September 1, 2025.]
Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS)
The amount of solar capacity required to meet the requirements of subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.
[NPRR1250  Delete the above definition “Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS)” on September 1, 2025.]
Split Generation Resource (see Resource Attribute)
Startup Cost 
All costs incurred by a Generation Resource in starting up and reaching Low Sustained Limit (LSL), as described in the Verifiable Cost Manual.  The Startup Cost is in dollars per start.
Startup Loading Failure 
A type of Forced Outage that results when a Generation Resource is unable to operate at Low Sustained Limit (LSL) at the time scheduled in the Current Operating Plan (COP) which occurs while the unit is ramping up to its scheduled MW output.  A Startup Loading Failure ends when the Resource: 
(a)	Achieves its LSL; 
(b)	Is scheduled to go Off-Line; or 
(c)	Ceases the attempt to start the Generation Resource and changes its Resource Status to OUT.
Startup Offer  
An offer for all costs incurred by a Generation Resource in starting up and reaching Low Sustained Limit (LSL).  The Startup Offer is in dollars per start.  
State Estimator
A computational algorithm that uses Real-Time inputs from the network’s Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system that measure the network’s electrical parameters, including its topology, voltage, power flows, etc., to estimate electrical parameters (such as line flows and Electrical Bus voltages and Loads) in the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  The State Estimator’s output is a description of the network and all of the values (topology, voltage, power flow, etc.) to describe each Electrical Bus and line included in the system model.
State Estimator Bus  
An electrical node of common voltage at a substation that consists of one or more Electrical Buses tied together with closed breakers or switches.
State of Charge (SOC)
The stored energy in MWh, of an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), that can be injected into the grid at the Point of Interconnection (POI) or Point of Common Coupling (POCC).
Hour Beginning Planned SOC
The planned State of Charge, in MWh, at the beginning of an hour, as communicated to ERCOT by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for the Resource.
Maximum State of Charge (MaxSOC)
The maximum amount of State of Charge, in MWh, of an ESR.
Minimum State of Charge (MinSOC)
The minimum amount of State of Charge, in MWh, of an ESR.
Study Area
A geographic region designated by ERCOT, separate from a Weather Zone or Load Zone.  Study Areas are used primarily for study purposes.  Study Areas shall be developed by ERCOT.
Substantiated Load
Load submitted by a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) for planning purposes that is substantiated by any of the following:
(a)	An executed interconnection or other agreement;
(b)	An independent third-party load forecast that has been deemed credible by ERCOT and that may include load for which a TDSP has yet to sign an interconnection agreement; or
(c)	A letter from a TDSP officer attesting to such load, which may include load for which a TDSP has yet to sign an interconnection agreement.
Subsynchronous Oscillation (SSO)
Coincident oscillation occurring between two or more Transmission Elements or Generation Resources at a natural harmonic frequency lower than the normal operating frequency of the ERCOT System (60 Hz).
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Subsynchronous Oscillation (SSO)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Subsynchronous Oscillation (SSO)
Coincident oscillation occurring between two or more Transmission Elements, Generation Resources, or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) at a natural harmonic frequency lower than the normal operating frequency of the ERCOT System (60 Hz).
Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR)
Coincident oscillation occurring between Generation Resources and a series capacitor compensated transmission system at a natural harmonic frequency lower than the normal operating frequency of the ERCOT System (60 Hz), including the following types of interactions:
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR)
Coincident oscillation occurring between Generation Resources or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) and a series capacitor compensated transmission system at a natural harmonic frequency lower than the normal operating frequency of the ERCOT System (60 Hz), including the following types of interactions:
Torsional Interaction
Torsional Interaction is the interplay between mechanical system of a turbine generator and a series compensated transmission system.
Induction Generator Effect (IGE)
An electrical phenomena in which a resonance involving a Generation Resource and a series compensated transmission system results in electrical self-excitation of the Generation Resource at a subsynchronous frequency.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Induction Generator Effect (IGE)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Induction Generator Effect (IGE)
An electrical phenomena in which a resonance involving a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) and a series compensated transmission system results in electrical self-excitation of the Generation Resource at a subsynchronous frequency.
Torque Amplification
An interaction between Generation Resources and a series compensated transmission system in which the response results in higher transient torque during or after disturbances than would otherwise occur.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Torque Amplification” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Torque Amplification
An interaction between Generation Resources or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) and a series compensated transmission system in which the response results in higher transient torque during or after disturbances than would otherwise occur.
Subsynchronous Control Interaction (SSCI)
The interaction between a series capacitor compensated transmission system and the control system of Generation Resources.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Subsynchronous Control Interaction (SSCI)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Subsynchronous Control Interaction (SSCI)
The interaction between a series capacitor compensated transmission system and the control system of Generation Resources or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).
Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) Countermeasures 
Any equipment or any procedure to mitigate the SSR vulnerability, including but not limited to the following types of countermeasures:
Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) Protection 
A countermeasure that includes, but is not limited to, disconnecting the affected Generation Resource. 
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) Protection” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) Protection 
A countermeasure that includes, but is not limited to, disconnecting the affected Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR).
Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) Mitigation 
A countermeasure that includes, but is not limited to, equipment installation, controller adjustment, or a procedure to mitigate the SSR vulnerability without disconnecting the affected Generation Resources.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) Mitigation” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) Mitigation 
A countermeasure that includes, but is not limited to, equipment installation, controller adjustment, or a procedure to mitigate the SSR vulnerability without disconnecting the affected Generation Resources or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).
Sustained Response Period
The period of time beginning ten minutes after the deployment time instructed within the ERCOT Extensible Markup Language (XML) message deploying Emergency Response Service (ERS)-10 or 30 minutes after the deployment time instructed within the ERCOT XML message deploying ERS-30, and ending with the recall time instructed within the ERCOT XML message recalling ERS Resources from the deployment.
Switch Request
A request submitted by a CR on behalf of a Customer to switch service from the Customer’s current CR to the requesting CR.
Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) (see Resource Attribute)
Synchronism Check Relay
A relay that electrically determines if the difference in voltage magnitude, frequency and phase angle falls within allowable limits for a breaker or switch to close.  The Synchronism Check Relay will either allow or prevent closing depending on its settings.
Synchroscope
A piece of equipment that is used to monitor voltage waveforms from the two sides of an open circuit breaker or disconnect switch to ensure that the voltage magnitude, frequency and phase angle are close enough to close the breaker or switch.
System Lambda
The cost of providing one MWh of energy at the reference Electrical Bus, i.e. the Shadow Price for the power balance constraint, which is equal to the change in the objective function obtained by relaxing the power balance constraint by one MW.  The System Lambda is the energy component of LMP at each Settlement Point in ERCOT.
System Operator
An Entity that supervises the collective Transmission Facilities of a power region.  This Entity is charged with coordination of market transactions, system-wide transmission planning, and network reliability.
System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP)
The SWCAP shall be determined in accordance with Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules.  
[NPRR1013:  Delete the above definition “System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP)” upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
T
[Back to Top]
TSP and DSP Metered Entity
An Entity that meets the requirements of Section 10.2.2, TSP and DSP Metered Entities. 
Tangible Net Worth  
Total shareholder’s equity less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Temporary Outage Action Plan (TOAP) (see Constraint Management Plan)
Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date
The date on which ERCOT starts operation of the Texas Nodal Market in compliance with the rules and orders of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).  Once this date is determined, ERCOT shall post it on the ERCOT website and maintain it on the ERCOT website.
Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET)
(1)	Texas Standard Electronic Transactions (TX SETs) are the electronic data transactions, implementation guides, and applicable external standards that enable and facilitate the retail business processes in the deregulated Texas electric market. 
(2)	The procedures used to transmit information pertaining to the Customer Registration Database are set forth in Section 19, Texas Standard Electronic Transaction.
Three-Part Supply Offer 
An offer made by a QSE for a Generation Resource that it represents containing three components: a Startup Offer, a Minimum-Energy Offer, and an Energy Offer Curve.
Time Of Use (TOU) Meter
A programmable electronic device capable of measuring and recording electric energy in pre-specified time periods.  For Load Profiling purposes TOU Metering does not include IDRs.
Time Of Use Schedule (TOUS)
A schedule identifying the Time Of Use period associated with each Settlement Interval.  These schedules may include on-peak, off-peak, and shoulder periods.
Transmission Access Service
The use of a TSP’s Transmission Facilities for which the TSP is allowed to charge through tariff rates approved by the PUCT.
Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP)
An Entity that is a TSP, a DSP or both, or an Entity that has been selected to own and operate Transmission Facilities and has a PUCT approved code of conduct in accordance with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.272, Code of Conduct for Electric Utilities and Their Affiliates.
Transmission Generation Resource (see Resource)
Transmission Element
A physical Transmission Facility that is either an Electrical Bus, line, transformer, generator, Load, breaker, switch, capacitor, reactor, phase shifter, or other similar device that is part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and defined in the ERCOT Network Operations Model. 
High Impact Transmission Element (HITE)
A Transmission Element that may, in certain conditions, result in high congestion risk when taken out-of-service and that is identified as further described in Section 3.1.8, High Impact Transmission Element (HITE) Identification.
Transmission Facilities
(1)	Power lines, substations, and associated facilities, operated at 60 kV or above, including radial lines operated at or above 60 kV;
(2)	Substation facilities on the high voltage side of the transformer, in a substation where power is transformed from a voltage higher than 60 kV to a voltage lower than 60 kV or is transformed from a voltage lower than 60 kV to a voltage higher than 60 kV; and
(3)	The direct current interconnections between ERCOT and the Southwest Power Pool or Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE).
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	The direct current interconnections between ERCOT and non-ERCOT Control Areas.
Transmission Loss Factor (TLF)
The fraction of ERCOT Load (forecast or actual) that is considered to constitute the ERCOT Transmission Grid losses in a Settlement Interval.
Actual Transmission Loss Factor (TLF)
Actual Transmission Loss Factor for each Settlement Interval in the Operating Day is determined by dividing the sum of line and transformer MW losses by the total ERCOT Load as determined by the State Estimator in the Energy Management System (EMS).
Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak Transmission Loss Factor (TLF)
Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak Transmission Loss Factor, as may be applied to determine forecasted ERCOT-wide or deemed actual Transmission Losses for Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs), is based on the use of a linear interpolation or extrapolation of the calculated losses in the off-peak and on-peak seasonal ERCOT base cases.
Transmission Losses
The difference between energy put into the ERCOT Transmission Grid and energy taken out of the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
Transmission Operator (TO)
A Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) designated by itself or another TDSP for purposes of communicating with ERCOT and taking action to preserve reliability of a particular portion of the ERCOT System, as provided in the ERCOT Protocols or Other Binding Documents.
[NPRR1045:  Replace the above definition “Transmission Operator (TO)” with the following upon system implementation of NPRR857:]
Transmission Operator (TO)
A Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) designated by itself, a Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO), or another TDSP for purposes of communicating with ERCOT and taking action to preserve reliability of a particular portion of the ERCOT System, as provided in the ERCOT Protocols or Other Binding Documents.
Transmission Service
The commercial use of Transmission Facilities.
Transmission Service Provider (TSP)
An Entity under the jurisdiction of the PUCT that owns or operates Transmission Facilities used for the transmission of electricity and provides Transmission Service in the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
U
[Back to Top]
Unaccounted for Energy (UFE)
The difference between total Load for each Settlement Interval, adjusted for applicable Distribution Losses and Transmission Losses, and total ERCOT generation.
Unit Reactive Limit (URL)
The maximum quantity of Reactive Power that a Generation Resource is capable of providing at a 0.95 power factor at its maximum real power capability.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition “Unit Reactive Limit (URL)” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Unit Reactive Limit (URL)
The maximum quantity of Reactive Power that a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is capable of providing at a 0.95 power factor at its maximum real power capability.
Unsubstantiated Load
Load submitted by a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) for planning purposes that is not Substantiated Load.
Updated Desired Base Point
A calculated MW value representing the expected MW output of a Generation Resource ramping to a Base Point.  
[NPRR1188:  Replace the definition “Updated Desired Base Point” above with the following upon system implementation:]
Updated Desired Base Point
A calculated MW value representing the expected MW output of a Generation Resource or Controllable Load Resource (CLR) ramping to a Base Point

[NPRR1013:  Replace the definition “Updated Desired Base Point” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Updated Desired Set Point (UDSP)
A calculated MW value representing the expected MW output of a Resource, as described in Section 6.5.7.4.1, Updated Desired Set Points.
Updated Network Model
A computerized representation of the ERCOT physical network topology, including some Resource Parameters, all of which replicates the forecasted or current network topology of the ERCOT System needed by ERCOT to perform its functions.
V
[Back to Top]
Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI)
A Dispatch Instruction issued orally.
Voltage Profile
The set of normally desired Voltage Set Points for those Generation Resources or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) specified in paragraph (2) of Section 3.15, Voltage Support, in the ERCOT System.
Voltage Set Point
The voltage that a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is required to maintain at its Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB) and that is initially communicated via the Voltage Profile but may be modified by a Real-Time instruction from ERCOT, the interconnecting Transmission Service Provider (TSP), or that TSP’s agent.
Voltage Support Service (VSS)
An Ancillary Service that is required to maintain transmission and distribution voltages on the ERCOT Transmission Grid within acceptable limits.
W
[Back to Top]
Watch
The third of three levels of communication issued by ERCOT in anticipation of a possible Emergency Condition.
Weather Zone
A geographic region designated by ERCOT in which climatological characteristics are similar for all areas within such region.  
Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC)
An instruction issued by ERCOT prior to 1330 in the Day-Ahead for an Operating Day that reserves a Generation Resource that requires a longer lead time for startup than possible from the DRUC.
Wholesale Customer
A NOIE receiving service at wholesale points of delivery from an LSE other than itself.
Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) (see Load)
Wide Area Network (WAN)
The WAN is a fully redundant, highly available network designed for Real-Time data transport and used by ERCOT and WAN Participants to communicate and exchange certain data as described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 7, Telemetry and Communication.
Wide Area Network (WAN) Data
Any data that has been received from or will be transmitted to ERCOT across the WAN in the format of Inter-Control Center Communication Protocol (ICCP) data or Resource-specific Extensible Markup Language (XML) data. 
Wide Area Network (WAN) Participant
A Transmission Operator (TO), Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing a Resource, QSE representing an Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resource, Data Agent-Only QSE (designated under ERCOT’s QSE Agency Agreement form), or other Market Participant that is required under the ERCOT Protocols to gather, transmit, or exchange Inter-Control Center Communication Protocol (ICCP) data, Resource-specific Extensible Markup Language (XML) data, or any of the operational voice data described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 7.1, ERCOT Wide Area Network.
Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) (see Resource Category)
Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP)
The generation in MWh per hour from a WGR that could be generated from all available units of that Resource allocated from the 80% probability of exceedance of the Total ERCOT Wind Power Forecast (TEWPF).
X
[Back to Top]

Y
[Back to Top]

Z
[Back to Top]
2.2	ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
4-CP	4-Coincident Peak
AAA	American Arbitration Association
AAN	Advance Action Notice
AASP	Average Aggregated Set Point
ACE	Area Control Error
ACH	Automated Clearing House
ACL	Available Credit Limit
ADR	Alternative Dispute Resolution
AEIC	Association of Edison Illuminating Companies
AGC	Automatic Generation Control
AGR	Aggregate Generation Resource
AIL	Aggregate Incremental Liability 
ALA	Applicable Legal Authority
ALR	Aggregate Load Resource
AML	Adjusted Metered Load
AMP	Automatic Mitigation Plan
AMS	Advanced Metering System
ANSI ASC X12	American National Standards Institute Accredited Standards Committee X12
AREP	Affiliated Retail Electric Provider
ARR	Adjusted SRPS Requirement
[NPRR1250:  Delete the acronym “ARR” above on September 1, 2025.]
ASDC	Ancillary Service Demand Curve
AVR	Automatic Voltage Regulator
 
BLT	Block Load Transfer
BSS	Black Start Service

CAO	Control Area Operator
CARD	CRR Auction Revenue Distribution
CCD+	Cash Concentration and Disbursement Plus
CCF	Capacity Conversion Factor
CCN	Certificate of Convenience and Necessity
CCT	Constraint Competitiveness Test
CDR	Report on Capacity, Demand and Reserves in the ERCOT Region
CEGE	Critical Electric Grid Equipment
CEGS	Critical Electric Grid Services
CEO	Chief Executive Officer
CFC	Constant Frequency Control
CFE	Comision Federal de Electricidad
CFTC	Commodity Futures Trading Commission
CIM	Common Information Model
CLR	Controllable Load Resource
CMLTD	Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt
CMP	Constraint Management Plan
CMZ	Congestion Management Zone
COP	Current Operating Plan
CPS	Control Performance Standard 
CPT	Central Prevailing Time
CR	Competitive Retailer
CRR	Congestion Revenue Right
CRRBA	Congestion Revenue Right Balancing Account
CSA	Continuous Service Agreement
CSV	Comma Separated Value
CTX	Corporate Trade Exchange

DAM	Day-Ahead Market
DAS	Data Aggregation System
DASPP	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price
DASWCAP	Day-Ahead System-Wide Offer Cap
DC	Direct Current 
DC Tie	Direct Current Tie
DCAA	Digital Certificate Audit Attestation
DCTO	Direct Current Tie Operator
DESR	Distribution Energy Storage Resource
DG	Distributed Generation
DGR	Distribution Generation Resource
DLC	Direct Load Control
DLF	Distribution Loss Factor
DME	Decision Making Entity
DRG	Distributed Renewable Generation
DRUC	Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment
DSC	Debt Service Coverage
DSP	Distribution Service Provider
DSR	Dynamically Scheduled Resource
[NPRR1000:  Delete the acronym “DSR” above upon system implementation.]
DUNS	Data Universal Numbering System
DUNS #	DUNS Number

e-Tag	Electronic Tag
EAF	Equivalent Availability Factor
EAL	Estimated Aggregate Liability 
EC	Electric Cooperative
ECAP	Emergency Offer Cap
ECEII	ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information
ECI	Element Competitiveness Index
ECRS	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service
EDI	Electronic Data Interchange
EEA	Energy Emergency Alert
EFT	Electronic Funds Transfer 
ELCC	Effective Load Carrying Capability
ELSE	External Load Serving Entity
EMMS	Energy and Market Management System
EMS	Energy Management System 
EPP	Emergency Pricing Program
EPRI	Electric Power Research Institute 
EPS	ERCOT-Polled Settlement 
ERCOT	Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc.
ERCOT Board	The Board of Directors of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc.
ERS	Emergency Response Service
ESI ID	Electric Service Identifier
ESR	Energy Storage Resource
ESREDP	Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance
ESS	Energy Storage System

F&A	Finance and Audit
FASD	First Available Switch Date
FCE	Future Credit Exposure
Fed	Federal
FERC	Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
FFR	Fast Frequency Response
FFSS	Firm Fuel Supply Service
FFSSR	Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource
FGR	Flowgate Right
FIP	Fuel Index Price
FIS	Full Interconnection Study
FME	Frequency Measurable Event
FOP	Fuel Oil Price
FPA	Federal Power Act 
FRC	Frequency Responsive Capacity
FRRS	Fast Responding Regulation Service
FRRS-Down	Fast Responding Regulation Down Service
FRRS-Up	Fast Responding Regulation Up Service
[NPRR1013:  Delete the acronyms “FRRS”,” FRRS-Down”, and “FRRS-Up” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
FSRR	Final SRPS Requirement
[NPRR1250:  Delete the acronym “FSRR” above on September 1, 2025.]

GADS	Generation Availability Data System
GREDP	Generation Resource Energy Deployment Performance
GSU	Generator Step-Up
GTBD			Generation To Be Dispatched
GTC			Generic Transmission Constraint
GTL	Generic Transmission Limit

HASL	High Ancillary Service Limit
[NPRR1013:  Delete the acronym “HASL” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
HCAP	High System-Wide Offer Cap
HDL	High Dispatch Limit
HE	Hour Ending
HEL	High Emergency Limit
HIO	High Impact Outage
HITE	High Impact Transmission Element
HRL	High Reasonability Limit
HRUC	Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment
HSL	High Sustained Limit
HWR	High Winter Ratio
Hz	Hertz


IBR	Inverter-Based Resource
ICCP	Inter-Control Center Communications Protocol 
IDR	Interval Data Recorder
IE	Interconnecting Entity
IEL	Initial Estimated Liability
IGE	Induction Generator Effects
IHLF	Intra-Hour Load Forecast
IHPPF	Intra-Hour PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast
IHWPF	Intra-Hour Wind Power Forecast
IMM	Independent Market Monitor
IMRE	Independent Market Information System Registered Entity
IOU	Investor Owned Utility
IPM	Independent Power Marketer
IROL	Interconnection Reliability Operating Limit
IRR	Intermittent Renewable Resources

kV	Kilovolt
kVA	Kilovolt-Ampere
kVAr	Kilovolt-Ampere reactive
kVArh	Kilovolt-Ampere reactive hour
kW	Kilowatt
kWh	Kilowatt-Hour

LASL	Low Ancillary Service Limit
[NPRR1013:  Delete the acronym “LASL” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
LCAP	Low System-Wide Offer Cap
LDL	Low Dispatch Limit
LEL	Low Emergency Limit
LFC	Load Frequency Control
LMP	Locational Marginal Price
LOLE	Loss of Load Expectation
LPC	Low Power Consumption
LRL	Low Reasonability Limit
LRS	Load Ratio Share
LSE	Load Serving Entity
LSIPA	Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act
LSL	Low Sustained Limit

MaxSOC	Maximum State of Charge
MCPC	Market Clearing Price for Capacity
MDAS	Meter Data Acquisition System
MinSOC	Minimum State of Charge
MIS	Market Information System
MMBtu	Million British Thermal Units
MOC	Mitigated Offer Cap
MOU	Municipally Owned Utility
MPC	Maximum Power Consumption
MPT	Main Power Transformer
MRA	Must-Run Alternative 
MRE	Meter Reading Entity
MTLF	Mid-Term Load Forecast
MVA	Megavolt Ampere 
MVAr	Mega Volt-Amperes reactive
MW	Megawatt
MWh	Megawatt Hour
MWhh	Megawatt Hour Hour
NCBI	Notice of Change of Banking Information
NCI	Notice of Change of Information 
NERC	North American Electric Reliability Corporation
NESC	National Electrical Safety Code
NFRC	Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity
[NPRR1013:  Delete the acronym “NFRC” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
NIST	National Institute of Standards and Technology 
NOIE	Non-Opt-In Entity
NOMCR	Network Operations Model Change Request
Non-Spin	Non-Spinning Reserve
NSA	Network Security Analysis
NSO	Notification of Suspension of Operations
NWS	Non-Weather Sensitive
NWSIDR	Non-Weather Sensitive IDR 

O&M	Operations and Maintenance
OAE			Outage Adjustment Evaluation
OCN	Operating Condition Notice
ORDC	Operating Reserve Demand Curve
[NPRR1013:  Delete the acronym “ORDC” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
OSA			Outage Schedule Adjustment

PCAP	Pre-Contingency Action Plan
PCRR	Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Right
PMI	Private Microgrid Island
PNM	Peaker Net Margin
POLR	Provider of Last Resort
POC	Peaking Operating Cost 
POCC	Point of Common Coupling 
POI	Point of Interconnection
POIB	Point of Interconnection Bus
POS	Power Operating System
PRC	Physical Responsive Capability
PRM	Planning Reserve Margin
PRR	Protocol Revision Request
PRS	Protocol Revision Subcommittee
PSS	Power System Stabilizer
PTB	Price-to-Beat
PTP	Point-to-Point 
PUCT	Public Utility Commission of Texas
PURA	Public Utility Regulatory Act, Title II, Texas Utility Code
PURPA	Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act
PV	PhotoVoltaic
PVGR	PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource
PVGRPP	PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential
PWG	Profiling Working Group

QF	Qualifying Facility
QSE	Qualified Scheduling Entity
QSGR	Quick Start Generation Resource

RAP	Remedial Action Plan
RAS	Remedial Action Scheme
RDF	Reserve Discount Factor
REC	Renewable Energy Credit
Reg-Down	Regulation Down 
Reg-Up	Regulation Up
REP	Retail Electric Provider
RID	Resource ID
RIDR	Representative IDR
RMR	Reliability Must-Run
RMS	Retail Market Subcommittee
ROS	Reliability and Operations Subcommittee
RPG	Regional Planning Group 
RPP	Renewable Production Potential
RRS	Responsive Reserve 
RSASM	Reconfiguration Supplemental Ancillary Services Market
[NPRR1013:  Delete the acronym “RSASM” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
RSF	Return of Settlement Funds
RTEP	Real-Time Energy Price 
RTM	Real-Time Market
RTSWCAP	Real-Time System-Wide Offer Cap
RUC	Reliability Unit Commitment
RUCAC	Reliability Unit Commitment for Additional Capacity

SASM	Supplemental Ancillary Services Market
[NPRR1013:  Delete the acronym “SASM” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
SCADA	Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SCED	Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch
SCUC	Security-Constrained Unit Commitment
SDRAMP	SCED Down Ramp Rate 
SFT	Simultaneous Feasibility Test
SGIA	Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement
SMOG	Settlement Metering Operating Guide
SOC	State of Charge
SODESS	Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System
SODG	Settlement Only Distribution Generator
SOESS	Settlement Only Energy Storage System
SOG	Settlement Only Generator 
SOTESS	Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System
SOTG	Settlement Only Transmission Generator
SOTSG	Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator
SPN	Secure Private Network
SREC	Solar Renewable Energy Credit
[NPRR1250:  Delete the acronym “SREC” above on September 1, 2025.]
SRPS	Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard
[NPRR1250:  Delete the acronym “SRPS” above on September 1, 2025.]
SSCI	Subsynchronous Control Interaction
SSO	Subsynchronous Oscillation
SSR	Subsynchronous Resonance
SSRR	Statewide SRPS Requirement
[NPRR1250:  Delete the acronym “SSRR” above on September 1, 2025.]
STEC	South Texas Electric Cooperative 
STLF	Short-Term Load Forecast
STPPF	Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast
STWPF	Short-Term Wind Power Forecast
SURAMP	SCED Up Ramp Rate 
SWCAP	System-Wide Offer Cap
[NPRR1013:  Delete the acronym “SWCAP” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
SWGR	Switchable Generation Resource

T&D	Transmission and Distribution
TAC	Technical Advisory Committee
TDSP	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider
TDTWG	Texas Data Transport Working Group
TEPPF	Total ERCOT PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast
TESR	Transmission Energy Storage Resource 
TEWPF	Total ERCOT Wind Power Forecast
TIER	Times/Interest Earning Ratio
TGR	Transmission Generation Resource
TLF	Transmission Loss Factor
TMTP	Texas Market Test Plan
TO	Transmission Operator
TOAP	Temporary Outage Action Plan
TOU	Time Of Use
TOUS			Time Of Use Schedule
TPE	Total Potential Exposure 
TSP	Transmission Service Provider
TTPT	Texas Test Plan Team
TUO	Total Usable Offset
TWC	Texas Water Code
TX SET	Texas Standard Electronic Transaction

UDSP	Updated Desired Set Point
UFE	Unaccounted For Energy
UFLS	Under-Frequency Load Shed
URL	Unit Reactive Limit
USA	User Security Administrator
USD	United States Dollar or U.S. Dollar
UVLS	Under-Voltage Load Shed

VAr	Volt-Ampere reactive
VDI	Verbal Dispatch Instruction
VEE	Validation, Editing and Estimating
VSS	Voltage Support Service

WAN	Wide Area Network
WGR	Wind-powered Generation Resource
WGRPP	Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential
WMS	Wholesale Market Subcommittee 
WRUC	Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment
WS	Weather Sensitive
WSIDR	Weather Sensitive IDR
WSL	Wholesale Storage Load

XML	Extensible Markup Language

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 3: Management Activities for the ERCOT System

April 1, 2025



 
3	MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES FOR THE ERCOT SYSTEM	3-1
3.1	Outage Coordination	3-1
3.1.1	Role of ERCOT	3-1
3.1.2	Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage Data Reporting	3-3
3.1.3	Rolling 12-Month Outage Planning and Update	3-4
3.1.3.1	Transmission Facilities	3-4
3.1.3.2	Resources	3-5
3.1.4	Communications Regarding Resource and Transmission Facilities Outages	3-5
3.1.4.1	Single Point of Contact	3-5
3.1.4.2	Method of Communication	3-7
3.1.4.3	Reporting for Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Resource and Transmission Facilities	3-7
3.1.4.4	Management of Forced Outages or Maintenance Outages	3-8
3.1.4.5	Notice of Forced Outage or Unavoidable Extension of Planned, Maintenance, or Rescheduled Outage Due to Unforeseen Events	3-10
3.1.4.6	Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions	3-12
3.1.4.7	Reporting of Forced Derates	3-12
3.1.4.8	Resource Forced Outage Report	3-13
3.1.5	Transmission System Outages	3-14
3.1.5.1	ERCOT Evaluation of Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage of Transmission Facilities	3-14
3.1.5.2	Receipt of TSP Requests by ERCOT	3-17
3.1.5.2	Receipt of TSP and DCTO Requests by ERCOT	3-17
3.1.5.3	Timelines for Response by ERCOT for TSP Requests	3-17
3.1.5.3	Timelines for Response by ERCOT for TSP and DCTO Requests	3-18
3.1.5.4	Delay	3-19
3.1.5.5	Opportunity Outage of Transmission Facilities	3-19
3.1.5.6	Rejection Notice	3-20
3.1.5.7	Withdrawal of Approval of Approved Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities	3-21
3.1.5.8	Priority of Approved Planned, Maintenance, and Rescheduled Outages	3-23
3.1.5.9	Information for Inclusion in Transmission Facilities Outage Requests	3-23
3.1.5.10	Additional Information Requests	3-25
3.1.5.11	Evaluation of Transmission Facilities Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage Requests	3-25
3.1.5.12	Submittal Timeline for Transmission Facility Outage Requests	3-27
3.1.5.13	Transmission Report	3-28
3.1.6	Outages of Resources Other than Reliability Resources	3-28
3.1.6.1	Receipt of Resource Requests by ERCOT	3-29
3.1.6.2	Resource Outage Plan	3-30
3.1.6.3	Additional Information Requests	3-30
3.1.6.4	Approval of Changes to a Resource Outage Plan	3-30
3.1.6.5	Evaluation of Proposed Resource Outage	3-31
3.1.6.6	Timelines for Response by ERCOT for Resource Planned Outages	3-32
3.1.6.7	 Delay	3-32
3.1.6.8	Resource Outage Rejection Notice	3-33
3.1.6.9	Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities	3-33
3.1.6.10	Opportunity Outage	3-39
3.1.6.11	Outage Returning Early	3-39
3.1.6.12	Resource Coming On-Line	3-40
3.1.6.13	Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity	3-40
3.1.6.14	Distribution Facility Outages Impacting Distribution Generation Resources and Distribution Energy Storage Resources	3-41
3.1.7	Reliability Resource Outages	3-41
3.1.7.1	Timelines for Response by ERCOT on Reliability Resource Outages	3-42
3.1.7.2	Changes to an Approved Reliability Resource Outage Plan	3-43
3.1.8	High Impact Transmission Element (HITE) Identification	3-43
3.2 	Analysis of Resource Adequacy	3-43
3.2.1	Calculation of Aggregate Resource Capacity	3-43
3.2.2	Demand Forecasts	3-44
3.2.3	Short-Term System Adequacy Reports	3-45
3.2.3	Short-Term System Adequacy Reports	3-47
3.2.4	[RESERVED]	3-49
3.2.5	Publication of Resource and Load Information	3-49
3.2.5.1	Unregistered Distributed Generation Reporting Requirements for Non Opt-In Entities	3-63
3.2.5.2	Unregistered Distributed Generation Reporting Requirements for Competitive Areas	3-64
3.2.5.3	Unregistered Distributed Generation Reporting Requirements for ERCOT	3-64
3.2.6	Report on Capacity, Demand and Reserves in the ERCOT Region	3-64
3.2.6.1	Planning Reserve Margins	3-65
3.2.6.2	Effective Load Carrying Capability (ELCC) Studies	3-65
3.2.6.3	Firm Peak Load and Firm Peak Net Load Estimates	3-66
3.2.6.4	Total Capacity Estimates	3-67
3.3	Management of Changes to ERCOT Transmission Grid	3-73
3.3.1	ERCOT Approval of New or Relocated Facilities	3-73
3.3.2	Types of Work Requiring ERCOT Approval	3-74
3.3.2.1	Information to Be Provided to ERCOT	3-74
3.3.2.2	Record of Approved Work	3-78
3.4	Load Zones	3-78
3.4.1	Load Zone Types	3-78
3.4.2	Load Zone Modifications	3-78
3.4.3	NOIE Load Zones	3-79
3.4.4	DC Tie Load Zones	3-80
3.4.5	Additional Load Buses	3-80
3.5	Hubs	3-81
3.5.1	Process for Defining Hubs	3-81
3.5.2	Hub Definitions	3-82
3.5.2.1	North 345 kV Hub (North 345)	3-82
3.5.2.2	South 345 kV Hub (South 345)	3-87
3.5.2.3	Houston 345 kV Hub (Houston 345)	3-92
3.5.2.4	West 345 kV Hub (West 345)	3-96
3.5.2.5	Panhandle 345 kV Hub (Pan 345)	3-100
3.5.2.6	Lower Rio Grande Valley Hub (LRGV 138/345)	3-104
3.5.2.6	ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345)	3-107
3.5.2.7	ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345 Bus)	3-109
3.5.3	ERCOT Responsibilities for Managing Hubs	3-114
3.5.3.1	Posting of Hub Buses and Electrical Buses included in Hubs	3-114
3.5.3.2	Calculation of Hub Prices	3-114
3.6	Load Participation	3-114
3.6.1	Load Resource Participation	3-114
3.6.2	Decision Making Entity for a Resource	3-117
3.7	Resource Parameters	3-117
3.7.1	Resource Parameter Criteria	3-118
3.7.1.1	Generation Resource Parameters	3-118
3.7.1.2	Load Resource Parameters	3-119
3.7.1.3	 Energy Storage Resource Parameters	3-119
3.7.2	Changes in Resource Parameters with Operational Impacts	3-120
3.7.3	Resource Parameter Validation	3-120
3.8	Special Considerations	3-120
3.8.1	Split Generation Resources	3-120
3.8.2	Combined Cycle Generation Resources	3-122
3.8.3	Quick Start Generation Resources	3-124
3.8.3.1	Quick Start Generation Resource Decommitment Decision Process	3-126
3.8.4	Generation Resources Operating in Synchronous Condenser Fast-Response Mode	3-127
3.8.5	Energy Storage Resources	3-127
3.8.6	Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs) and Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs)	3-128
3.8.7	Self-Limiting Facility	3-131
3.9	Current Operating Plan (COP)	3-133
3.9.1	Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria	3-135
3.9.2	Current Operating Plan Validation	3-148
3.10	Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry	3-149
3.10.1	Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes	3-154
3.10.2	Annual Planning Model	3-159
3.10.3	CRR Network Model	3-160
3.10.3.1	Process for Managing Network Operations Model Updates for Point of Interconnection Bus Changes, Resource Retirements and Deletion of DC Tie Load Zones	3-160
3.10.4	ERCOT Responsibilities	3-161
3.10.5	TSP Responsibilities	3-164
3.10.5	TSP and DCTO Responsibilities	3-165
3.10.6	QSE and Resource Entity Responsibilities	3-166
3.10.7	ERCOT System Modeling Requirements	3-168
3.10.7.1	Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters	3-168
3.10.7.1.1	Transmission Lines	3-170
3.10.7.1.2	Transmission Buses	3-172
3.10.7.1.3	Transmission Breakers and Switches	3-173
3.10.7.1.4	Transmission, Main Power Transformers (MPTs) and Generation Resource Step-Up Transformers	3-175
3.10.7.1.4	Transmission, Main Power Transformers (MPTs) and Generation Step-Up Transformers	3-175
3.10.7.1.5	Reactors, Capacitors, and other Reactive Controlled Sources	3-177
3.10.7.2	Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads	3-177
3.10.7.2.1	Reporting of Demand Response	3-182
3.10.7.2.2	Annual Demand Response Report	3-183
3.10.7.3	Modeling of Private Use Networks	3-186
3.10.7.4	Remedial Action Schemes, Automatic Mitigation Plans and Remedial Action Plans	3-187
3.10.7.5	Telemetry Requirements	3-188
3.10.7.5.1	Continuous Telemetry of the Status of Breakers and Switches	3-190
3.10.7.5.2	Continuous Telemetry of the Real-Time Measurements of Bus Load, Voltages, Tap Position, and Flows	3-193
3.10.7.5.3 	Required Telemetry of Voltage and Power Flow	3-196
3.10.7.5.4	General Telemetry Performance Criteria	3-197
3.10.7.5.5	Supplemental Telemetry Performance Criteria	3-198
3.10.7.5.6	TSP/QSE Telemetry Restoration	3-199
3.10.7.5.7	Calibration, Quality Checking, and Testing	3-199
3.10.7.5.8	Inter-Control Center Communications Protocol (ICCP) Links	3-199
3.10.7.5.8.1	Data Quality Codes	3-199
3.10.7.5.8.2	Reliability of ICCP Associations	3-200
3.10.7.5.9	ERCOT Requests for Telemetry	3-200
3.10.7.5.10	ERCOT Requests for Redundant Telemetry	3-202
3.10.7.6	Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits	3-204
3.10.7.7	DC Tie Limits	3-205
3.10.7.7	DC Tie Advisory Limits	3-206
3.10.8	Dynamic Ratings	3-206
3.10.8.1	Dynamic Ratings Delivered via ICCP	3-207
3.10.8.2	Dynamic Ratings Delivered via Static Table and Telemetered Temperature	3-207
3.10.8.3	Dynamic Rating Network Operations Model Change Requests	3-208
3.10.8.4	ERCOT Responsibilities Related to Dynamic Ratings	3-208
3.10.8.5	Transmission Service Provider Responsibilities Related to Dynamic Ratings	3-209
3.10.9	State Estimator Requirements	3-209
3.10.9.1	Considerations for State Estimator Requirements	3-209
3.10.9.2	State Estimator Data	3-210
3.10.9.3	Telemetry Status and Analog Measurements Data	3-211
3.10.9.4	State Estimator Performance Requirements	3-211
3.10.9.5	ERCOT Directives	3-212
3.10.9.6	Telemetry and State Estimator Performance Monitoring	3-212
3.11	Transmission Planning	3-213
3.11.1	Overview	3-213
3.11.2	Planning Criteria	3-213
3.11.3	Regional Planning Group	3-214
3.11.4	Regional Planning Group Project Review Process	3-214
3.11.4.1	Project Submission	3-214
3.11.4.1.1	Project Submissions Based on Unsubstantiated Load	3-215
3.11.4.2	Project Comment Process	3-215
3.11.4.3	Categorization of Proposed Transmission Projects	3-215
3.11.4.4	Processing of Tier 4 Projects	3-217
3.11.4.5	Processing of Tier 3 Projects	3-217
3.11.4.6	Processing of Tier 2 Projects	3-217
3.11.4.7	Processing of Tier 1 Projects	3-218
3.11.4.8	Determine Designated Providers of Transmission Additions	3-218
3.11.4.9	Regional Planning Group Acceptance and ERCOT Endorsement	3-219
3.11.4.10	Modifications to ERCOT Endorsed Projects	3-220
3.11.4.11	Customer or Resource Entity Funded Transmission Projects	3-220
3.11.5	Transmission Service Provider and Distribution Service Provider Access to Interval Data	3-220
3.11.6	Generation Interconnection Process	3-221
3.12	Load Forecasting	3-221
3.12.1	Seven-Day Load Forecast	3-223
3.12.2	Study Areas	3-223
3.12.3	Seven-Day Study Area Load Forecast	3-224
3.13	Renewable Production Potential Forecasts	3-224
3.14	Contracts for Reliability Resources and Emergency Response Service Resources	3-225
3.14.1	Reliability Must Run	3-225
3.14.1.1	Notification of Suspension of Operations	3-228
3.14.1.2	ERCOT Evaluation Process	3-229
3.14.1.2.1	ERCOT Evaluation of Seasonal Mothball Status	3-232
3.14.1.3	ERCOT Board Approval of RMR and MRA Agreements	3-233
3.14.1.4	Exit Strategy from an RMR Agreement	3-234
3.14.1.5	Evaluation of Alternatives	3-234
3.14.1.6	Transmission System Upgrades Associated with an RMR and/or MRA Exit Strategy	3-235
3.14.1.7	RMR or MRA Contract Termination	3-236
3.14.1.8	RMR and/or MRA Contract Extension	3-237
3.14.1.9	Generation Resource Status Updates	3-238
3.14.1.9	Generation Resource/Energy Storage Resource Status Updates	3-241
3.14.1.10	Eligible Costs	3-245
3.14.1.11	Budgeting Eligible Costs	3-247
3.14.1.12	Calculation of the Initial Standby Cost	3-250
3.14.1.13	Updated Budgets During the Term of an RMR Agreement	3-250
3.14.1.14	Reporting Actual RMR Eligible Costs	3-251
3.14.1.15	Reporting Actual MRA Eligible Costs	3-251
3.14.1.16	Reconciliation of Actual Eligible Costs	3-251
3.14.1.17	Incentive Factor	3-252
3.14.1.18	Major Equipment Modifications	3-252
3.14.1.19	Charge for Contributed Capital Expenditures	3-252
3.14.1.20	Budgeting Fuel Costs	3-254
3.14.1.21	Reporting Actual Eligible Fuel Costs	3-255
3.14.2	Black Start	3-256
3.14.3	Emergency Response Service	3-259
3.14.3.1	Emergency Response Service Procurement	3-259
3.14.3.2	Emergency Response Service Self-Provision	3-265
3.14.3.3	Emergency Response Service Provision and Technical Requirements	3-267
3.14.3.4	Emergency Response Service Reporting and Market Communications	3-269
3.14.4	Must-Run Alternative Service	3-270
3.14.4.1	Overview and Description of MRAs	3-270
3.14.4.2	Preliminary Review of Prospective Demand Response MRAs	3-274
3.14.4.3	MRA Substitution	3-275
3.14.4.4	Commitment and Dispatch	3-275
3.14.4.5	Standards for Generation Resource MRAs and ESR MRAs	3-276
3.14.4.6	Standards for Other Generation MRAs and Demand Response MRAs	3-276
3.14.4.6.1	MRA Telemetry Requirements	3-276
3.14.4.6.2	Baseline Performance Evaluation Methodology for Demand Response MRAs	3-277
3.14.4.6.3	MRA Metering and Metering Data	3-277
3.14.4.6.4	MRA Availability Measurement and Verification	3-278
3.14.4.6.5	MRA Event Performance Measurement and Verification	3-279
3.14.4.6.5.1	Event Performance Measurement and Verification for Co-Located Demand Response MRAs and Other Generation MRAs	3-282
3.14.4.7	MRA Testing	3-283
3.14.4.8	MRA Misconduct Events	3-284
3.14.4.9	MRA Reporting to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs)	3-284
3.14.5	Firm Fuel Supply Service	3-285
3.15	Voltage Support	3-290
3.15.1	ERCOT Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support	3-296
3.15.2	DSP Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support	3-297
3.15.3	Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource Requirements Related to Voltage Support	3-298
3.15.4	Direct Current Tie Owner and Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support	3-300
3.16	Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities	3-301
3.17	Ancillary Service Capacity Products	3-305
3.17.1	Regulation Service	3-305
3.17.2	Responsive Reserve Service	3-306
3.17.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Service	3-306
3.17.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service	3-307
3.18	Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service	3-308
3.19	Constraint Competitiveness Tests	3-311
3.19.1	Constraint Competitiveness Test Definitions	3-311
3.19.2	Element Competitiveness Index Calculation	3-314
3.19.3	Long-Term Constraint Competitiveness Test	3-315
3.19.4	Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch Constraint Competitiveness Test	3-316
3.20	Identification of Chronic Congestion	3-318
3.20.1	Evaluation of Chronic Congestion	3-318
3.20.2	Topology and Model Verification	3-318
3.21	Submission of Declarations of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination	3-319
3.22	Subsynchronous Resonance	3-320
3.22.1	Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment	3-320
3.22.1.1 	Existing Generation Resource Assessment	3-320
3.22.1.2 	Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource Interconnection Assessment	3-321
3.22.1.3 	Transmission Project Assessment	3-323
3.22.1.4 	Annual SSR Review	3-325
3.22.2	Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria	3-327
3.22.3 	Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring	3-329
3.23	Agreements between ERCOT and other Control Area Operators	3-331
3.24	Notification of Low Coal and Lignite Inventory Levels	3-332
3.25	Submission of Gas Supply Disruption	3-332
 
 
MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES FOR THE ERCOT SYSTEM
(1)	This section focuses on the management activities, including Outage Coordination, Resource Adequacy, Load forecasting, transmission operations and planning, and contracts for Ancillary Services for the ERCOT System.
3.1	Outage Coordination
(1)	“Outage Coordination” is the management of Transmission Facilities Outages and Resource Outages in the ERCOT System. Facility owners are solely and directly responsible for the performance of all maintenance, repair, and construction work, whether on energized or de-energized facilities, including all activities related to providing a safe working environment.
3.1.1	Role of ERCOT
(1)	ERCOT shall coordinate and use reasonable efforts, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to accept, approve or reject all requested Outage plans for maintenance, repair, and construction of both Transmission Facilities and Resources within the ERCOT System.  ERCOT may reject an Outage plan under certain circumstances, as set forth in these Protocols.
(2)	ERCOT’s responsibilities with respect to Outage Coordination include:
(a)	Approving or rejecting requests for Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages of Transmission Facilities for Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) in coordination with and based on information regarding all Entities’ Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages;
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(a)	Approving or rejecting requests for Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages of Transmission Facilities for Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs) in coordination with and based on information regarding all Entities’ Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages;
(b)	Assessing the adequacy of available Resources, based on planned and known Resource Outages, relative to forecasts of Load, Ancillary Service requirements,  and reserve requirements;
(c)	Coordinating all Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plans and approving or rejecting Outage plans for Planned Outages of Resources;
(d)	Coordinating and approving or rejecting Outage plans for Planned Outages of Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units under the terms of the applicable RMR Agreements; 
(e)	Coordinating and approving or rejecting Outage plans associated with Black Start Resources under the applicable Black Start Unit Agreements;
(f)	Coordinating and approving or rejecting Outage plans affecting Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) vulnerable Generation Resources that do not have SSR Mitigation in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages;
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (f) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(f)	Coordinating and approving or rejecting Outage plans affecting Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) vulnerable Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) that do not have SSR Mitigation in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages;
(g)	Coordinating and approving or rejecting changes to existing Resource Outage plans;
(h)	Monitoring how Planned Outage schedules compare with actual Outages;
(i)	Posting all proposed and approved schedules for Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area under Section 3.1.5.13, Transmission Report;
(j)	Creating and posting aggregated MW of Planned Outages for Resources on the MIS Secure Area under Section 3.2.3, Short-Term System Adequacy Reports; 
(k)	Monitoring Transmission Facilities and Resource Forced Outages and Maintenance Outages of immediate nature and implementing responses to those Outages as provided in these Protocols;
(l)	Establishing and implementing communication procedures:
(i)	For a TSP to request approval of Transmission Facilities Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plans; and 
[NPRR857:  Replace item (i) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(i)	For a TSP or a DCTO to request approval of Transmission Facilities Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plans; and
(ii)	For a Resource Entity’s designated Single Point of Contact to submit Outage plans and to coordinate Resource Outages;
(m)	Establishing and implementing record-keeping procedures for retaining all requested Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, Rescheduled Outages, and Forced Outages; and
(n)	Planning and analyzing Transmission Facilities Outages.
3.1.2	Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage Data Reporting
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall use reasonable efforts, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to continually update its Outage plans for all Outages.  All information submitted about Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages must be submitted by the Resource Entity or the TSP under this Section.  If an Outage plan for a Resource is also applicable to the Current Operating Plan (COP), the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) responsible for the Resource shall also update the COP to provide the same information describing the Outage.  Each TSP shall use reasonable efforts, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to continually update its Outage plan, including, but not limited to, submitting the actual start and end date and time for Planned Outages of Transmission Facilities in the Outage Scheduler by hour ending 0800 of the current Operating Day for all scheduled work completed prior to hour ending 0600 of the current Operating Day. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall use reasonable efforts, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to continually update its Outage plans for all Outages.  All information submitted about Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages must be submitted by the Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO under this Section.  If an Outage plan for a Resource is also applicable to the Current Operating Plan (COP), the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) responsible for the Resource shall also update the COP to provide the same information describing the Outage.  Each TSP and DCTO shall use reasonable efforts, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to continually update its Outage plan, including, but not limited to, submitting the actual start and end date and time for Planned Outages of Transmission Facilities in the Outage Scheduler by hour ending 0800 of the current Operating Day for all scheduled work completed prior to hour ending 0600 of the current Operating Day. 
3.1.3	Rolling 12-Month Outage Planning and Update
3.1.3.1	Transmission Facilities
(1)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT a plan for Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages and Rescheduled Outages in an ERCOT-provided format for the next 12 months updated monthly.  Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, and Rescheduled Outage scheduling data for Transmission Facilities must be kept current.  Updates must identify all changes to any previously proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages and any additional Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages anticipated over the next 12 months.  ERCOT shall coordinate in-depth reviews of the 12-month plan with each TSP at least twice per year.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Each TSP and DCTO shall provide to ERCOT a plan for Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages in an ERCOT-provided format for the next 12 months updated monthly.  Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, and Rescheduled Outage scheduling data for Transmission Facilities must be kept current.  Updates must identify all changes to any previously proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages and any additional Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages anticipated over the next 12 months.  ERCOT shall coordinate in-depth reviews of the 12-month plan with each TSP at least twice per year.
3.1.3.2	Resources
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall provide to ERCOT a Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plan for Generation Resources in an ERCOT-provided format for at least the next 12 months updated monthly.  Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plans must be updated as soon as practicable following any change.  Updates, through an electronic interface as specified by ERCOT, must identify any changes to previously proposed Planned Outages or Maintenance Outages and any additional Planned Outages or Maintenance Outages.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall provide to ERCOT a Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plan for Generation Resources and ESRs in an ERCOT-provided format for at least the next 12 months updated monthly.  Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage plans must be updated as soon as practicable following any change.  Updates, through an electronic interface as specified by ERCOT, must identify any changes to previously proposed Planned Outages or Maintenance Outages and any additional Planned Outages or Maintenance Outages.
(2)	ERCOT shall report statistics monthly on how Resource Planned Outages compare with actual Resource Outages, and post those statistics to the MIS Secure Area. 
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall report statistics monthly on how Resource Planned Outages compare with actual Resource Outages, and post those statistics to the ERCOT website.
3.1.4	Communications Regarding Resource and Transmission Facilities Outages
3.1.4.1	Single Point of Contact
(1)	All communications concerning a Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage must be between ERCOT and the designated “Single Point of Contact” for each TSP or Resource Entity.  All nonverbal communications concerning Planned Outages or Rescheduled Outages must be conveyed through an electronic interface as specified by ERCOT.  The TSP or Resource Entity shall identify, in its initial request or response, the Single Point of Contact, with primary and alternate means of communication.  The Resource Entity or TSP shall submit a Notice of Change of Information (NCI) form (Section 23, Form E, Notice of Change of Information) when changes occur to a Single Point of Contact.  This identification must be confirmed in all communications with ERCOT regarding Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage requests.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	All communications concerning a Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage must be between ERCOT and the designated “Single Point of Contact” for each TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity.  All nonverbal communications concerning Planned Outages or Rescheduled Outages must be conveyed through an electronic interface as specified by ERCOT.  The TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity shall identify, in its initial request or response, the Single Point of Contact, with primary and alternate means of communication.  The Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO shall submit a Notice of Change of Information (NCI) form (Section 23, Form E, Notice of Change of Information) when changes occur to a Single Point of Contact.  This identification must be confirmed in all communications with ERCOT regarding Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage requests.
(2)	The Single Point of Contact must be either a person or a position available seven days per week and 24 hours per day for each Resource Entity and TSP.  The Resource Entity shall designate its QSE as its Single Point of Contact.  The designated Single Point of Contact for a Generation Resource that has been split into two or more Split Generation Resources shall be the Master QSE.  The Single Point of Contact for the TSP must be designated under the ERCOT Operating Guides.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	The Single Point of Contact must be either a person or a position available seven days per week and 24 hours per day for each Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO.  The Resource Entity shall designate its QSE as its Single Point of Contact.  The designated Single Point of Contact for a Generation Resource that has been split into two or more Split Generation Resources shall be the Master QSE.  The Single Point of Contact for each TSP and DCTO must be designated under the ERCOT Operating Guides.
3.1.4.2	Method of Communication
(1)	ERCOT, each TSP, and each Resource Entity shall communicate according to ERCOT procedures under these Protocols.  All submissions, changes, approvals, rejections, and withdrawals regarding Outages must be processed through the ERCOT Outage Scheduler on the ERCOT programmatic interface, except for Forced Outages and Maintenance Level I Outages, which must be communicated to ERCOT immediately via the Current Operating Plan (COP) if submitted for a Resource and using the Outage Scheduler if submitted by a TSP.  This does not prohibit any verbal communication when the situation warrants it.  ERCOT shall develop guidelines for the types of events that may require verbal communication. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT and each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall communicate according to ERCOT procedures under these Protocols.  All submissions, changes, approvals, rejections, and withdrawals regarding Outages must be processed through the ERCOT Outage Scheduler on the ERCOT programmatic interface, except for Forced Outages and Maintenance Level I Outages, which must be communicated to ERCOT immediately via the Current Operating Plan if submitted for a Resource and using the Outage Scheduler if submitted by a TSP or DCTO.  This does not prohibit any verbal communication when the situation warrants it.  ERCOT shall develop guidelines for the types of events that may require verbal communication. 
3.1.4.3	Reporting for Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Resource and Transmission Facilities
(1)	Each Resource Entity and TSP shall submit information regarding proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities or Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages of Generation Resources under procedures adopted by ERCOT.  The obligation to submit that information applies to each Resource Entity that is responsible to operate or maintain a Generation Resource that is part of or that affects the ERCOT System.  The obligation to submit that information applies to each TSP or Resource Entity that is responsible to operate or maintain Transmission Facilities that are part of or affect the ERCOT System.  A Resource Entity or TSP is also obligated to submit information for Transmission Facilities or Generation Resources that are not part of the ERCOT System or that do not affect the ERCOT System if that information is required for regional security coordination as determined by ERCOT.
[NPRR857 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities for NPRR857; and upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(1)	Each Resource Entity, TSP, and DCTO shall submit information regarding proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities or Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages of Generation Resources or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) under procedures adopted by ERCOT.  The obligation to submit that information applies to each Resource Entity that is responsible to operate or maintain a Generation Resource or ESR that is part of or that affects the ERCOT System.  The obligation to submit that information applies to each TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity that is responsible to operate or maintain Transmission Facilities that are part of or affect the ERCOT System.  A Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO is also obligated to submit information for Transmission Facilities or Generation Resources or ESRs that are not part of the ERCOT System or that do not affect the ERCOT System if that information is required for regional security coordination as determined by ERCOT.
(2)	Before taking an RMR or Black Start Resource (“Reliability Resources”) out of service for a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage, the Single Point of Contact for that Reliability Resource must obtain ERCOT’s approval of the schedule of the Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage.  ERCOT shall review and approve or reject each proposed Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage Schedule under this Section and the applicable Agreements.
(3)	A Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource (FFSSR) shall not schedule or request a Planned Outage that would occur during the period of December 1 through March 1.
3.1.4.4	Management of Forced Outages or Maintenance Outages
(1)	In the event of a Forced Outage, the Resource Entity or QSE, as appropriate, or TSP must notify ERCOT by: 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	In the event of a Forced Outage, after the affected equipment is removed from service, the Resource Entity or QSE, as appropriate, TSP, or DCTO must notify ERCOT of its action by: 
(a)	For Resource Outages:
(i)	Changing the telemetered Resource Status to the appropriate Off-Line status as soon as practicable but no longer than 15 minutes after the Forced Outage occurs; 
(ii)	Updating the COP as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the Forced Outage occurs; and 
(iii)	Updating the Outage Scheduler, if necessary.  
(b)	For Transmission Facilities Forced Outages:
(i)	Changing the telemetered status of the affected Transmission Elements; and
(ii)	Updating the Outage Scheduler with the expected return-to-service time.
(c)	Each TSP and QSE shall timely update telemetry, COP status, and/or the Outage Scheduler, as applicable, in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) above unless in the reasonable judgment of the TSP or QSE, such compliance would create an undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment.  The TSP or QSE is excused from updating the telemetered status, COP, and/or Outage Scheduler only for so long as the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment exists.  The time for updating the telemetered status, COP, and/or Outage Scheduler begins once the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment no longer exists.  
(2)	Forced Outages may require ERCOT to review and withdraw approval of previously approved or accepted, as applicable, Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage schedules to ensure reliability.
(3)	For Maintenance Outages, the Resource Entity or QSE, as appropriate, or TSP shall notify ERCOT of any Resource or Transmission Facilities Maintenance Outage according to the Maintenance Outage Levels by updating the COP and Outage Scheduler.  ERCOT shall coordinate the removal of facilities from service within the defined timeframes as specified by the TSP, QSE or Resource Entity in its notice to ERCOT.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	For Maintenance Outages, the Resource Entity or QSE, as appropriate, TSP, or DCTO shall notify ERCOT of any Resource or Transmission Facilities Maintenance Outage according to the Maintenance Outage Levels by updating the COP and Outage Scheduler.  ERCOT shall coordinate the removal of facilities from service within the defined timeframes as specified by the TSP, DCTO, QSE, or Resource Entity in its notice to ERCOT.
(4)	ERCOT may require supporting information describing Forced Outages and Maintenance Outages.  ERCOT may reconsider and withdraw approvals of other previously approved Transmission Facilities Outage or an Outage of a Reliability Resource as a result of Forced Outages or Maintenance Outages, if necessary, in ERCOT’s determination to protect system reliability.  When ERCOT approves a Maintenance Outage, ERCOT shall coordinate timing of the appropriate course of action under these Protocols.
(5)	Removal of a Resource or Transmission Facilities from service under Maintenance Outages must be coordinated with ERCOT.  To minimize harmful impacts to the system in urgent situations, the equipment may be removed immediately from service, provided notice is given immediately, by the Resource Entity or TSP, to ERCOT of such action.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	Removal of a Resource or Transmission Facilities from service under Maintenance Outages must be coordinated with ERCOT.  To minimize harmful impacts to the system in urgent situations, the equipment may be removed immediately from service, provided the Resource Entity, TSP, or DCTO immediately gives notice of such action to ERCOT.
3.1.4.5	Notice of Forced Outage or Unavoidable Extension of Planned, Maintenance, or Rescheduled Outage Due to Unforeseen Events 
(1)	If a Planned, Maintenance, or Rescheduled Outage is not completed within the ERCOT-approved timeframe and the Transmission Facilities or Resources are in such a condition that they cannot be restored at the Outage schedule completion date, the requesting party shall submit to ERCOT a Forced Outage (unavoidable extension) form describing the extension of the Outage and providing a revised return date.
(2)	Any transmission Forced Outage that occurs in Real-Time and that is expected to continue for longer than two hours must be entered into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of the Outage.  Any transmission Forced Outage with a duration exceeding two hours must be entered into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 150 minutes after the beginning of the transmission Forced Outage, if not already reported in the Outage Scheduler.
(3)	Any Resource Forced Outage that occurs in Real-Time must be entered into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of the Forced Outage.
(4)	If the QSE is to receive the exemption described in paragraph (6)(d) of Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, the QSE will notify ERCOT Operators by voice communication of every Forced Outage, Forced Derate, or Startup Loading Failure within 15 minutes.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	If the QSE is to receive the exemption described in paragraph (6)(d) of Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, the QSE will notify ERCOT Operators by voice communication of every Forced Outage, Forced Derate, or Startup Loading Failure within 15 minutes.
(5)	For a Startup Loading Failure, the Resource Entity or its designee must enter a Forced Outage in the Outage Scheduler if the Resource was in an Off-Line status prior to the Startup Loading Failure or update the existing Outage for the Resource if the Resource was on Outage prior to the Startup Loading Failure.  The Resource Entity or its designee must also provide a text entry in the supporting information field of the Outage Scheduler that includes the following:
(a)	A statement that a Startup Loading Failure occurred; 
(b)	An explanation of the cause of the Startup Loading Failure using the best available information at the time the Outage or update to the existing Outage is entered, which must be updated if more accurate information becomes available; and  
(c)	The start time and end time of the Startup Loading Failure portion of the Outage.  Multiple consecutive startup attempts may be aggregated into a single Startup Loading Failure event with a single start and end time.
3.1.4.6	Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions
(1)	If ERCOT forecasts an inability to meet applicable transmission reliability standards, has exercised all other reasonable options, and there is only one QSE with approved or accepted Resource Outages which could resolve the situation if the start of one or more of the Resource Outages at a single Resource site were delayed or one or more ongoing Resource Outages at a single Resource site were restored early, then ERCOT may contact that QSE and attempt to reach a mutually acceptable solution to delay or reschedule one or more of those Outages.  In this case, ERCOT is not obligated to follow the process described in Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities.  ERCOT shall not provide information to the QSE during these contacts which is not directly related to the QSE’s Planned Resource Outage(s) and is not otherwise available to all other Market Participants.
(2)	If ERCOT and the QSE are unable to reach a mutually agreeable solution to change the Resource Outage, ERCOT may issue an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) to the QSE for the Resource.  
[NPRR930:  Insert paragraph (3) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(3)	If there are Resources at multiple sites with approved or accepted Resource Outages, whose approval or acceptance could be withdrawn to meet the applicable transmission reliability standards, ERCOT shall utilize the process described in Section 3.1.6.9.
(3)	This Section is not intended to restrict ongoing Outage Coordination activities occurring more than seven days in advance of Real-Time.
3.1.4.7	Reporting of Forced Derates
(1)	If a Generation Resource experiences a Forced Derate in an amount greater than ten MW, and 5% of its Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating, and the Forced Derate lasts longer than 30 minutes, the Resource Entity or its designee must enter the Forced Derate into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of the Forced Derate.
(2)	If a Forced Derate that has already been reported changes by an amount greater than ten MW and 5% of the Generation Resource’s Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating, and the change lasts longer than 30 minutes, the Resource Entity or its designee must enter the change as a new Forced Derate into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of the change.
(3)	Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) above, for any Forced Derate or change to a Forced Derate that meets the reporting criteria specified in paragraph (1) or (2) above and that is caused by ambient temperature or humidity, the Resource Entity or its designee must enter the Forced Derate into the Outage Scheduler as soon as practicable but no longer than eight hours after the beginning of the Force Derate or change.
(4)	The QSE must appropriately update the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) and any applicable telemetry as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements, based on the Forced Derate, as soon as practicable but no longer than 15 minutes after the beginning of a Forced Derate, if the Forced Derate is greater than ten MW and more than 5% of the Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating of the Resource and its expected or actual duration is greater than 30 minutes.  Alternatively for a Forced Derate, a QSE may use the ONHOLD process described in paragraph (2) of Section 6.5.5.1, Changes in Resource Status.
(5)	The QSE must update the COP as soon as practicable but no longer than 60 minutes after the beginning of a Forced Derate, if the Forced Derate is greater than 20 MW and its expected duration is greater than 120 minutes.
(6)	Each QSE shall timely update the telemetered HSL and COP unless in the reasonable judgment of the QSE, such compliance would create an undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment.  The QSE is excused from updating the telemetered HSL and/or COP only for so long as the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment exists.  The time for updating the telemetered HSL and/or COP begins once the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment no longer exists.
3.1.4.8	Resource Forced Outage Report
(1)	Three days after each Operating Day, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website a report that identifies each Forced Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Forced Derate of a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) that occurs during, or that extends into, that Operating Day.  At a minimum, the report shall contain:
(a)	The Resource name;
(b)	The Resource unit code;
(c)	The Resource’s fuel type;
(d)	The type of Outage or derate;
(e)	The Resource’s applicable Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating;
(f)	The available MW during the Outage or derate;
(g)	The effective MW reduction due to the Outage or derate;
(h)	The start date/time and the planned or actual end date/time; and 
(i)	The entry in the “nature of work” field in the Outage Scheduler for each Outage or derate.
3.1.5	Transmission System Outages
3.1.5.1	ERCOT Evaluation of Planned Outage and Maintenance Outage of Transmission Facilities
(1)	A TSP or Resource Entity shall request a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage when any Transmission Facility that is part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and defined in the Network Operations Model will be removed from its normal service.  For Resource Entities within a Private Use Network, this only includes Transmission Facilities at the Point of Interconnection (POI).  For TSP requests, the TSPs shall enter such requests in the Outage Scheduler.  For Resource Entity requests, the Resource Entity shall enter such requests in the Outage Scheduler.  Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages for Electrical Buses will be treated as consequentially outaged Transmission Elements.  In those cases where a TSP enters the breaker and switch statuses associated with an Electrical Bus, a downstream topology processor will evaluate the breakers and switches associated with the applicable Electrical Bus to determine if the Electrical Bus is consequentially outaged, and to thereby designate the status of the Electrical Bus.  Proposed Transmission Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage information submitted by a TSP or Resource Entity in accordance with this Section constitutes a request for ERCOT’s approval of the Outage Schedule associated with the Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage.  ERCOT is not deemed to have approved the Outage Schedule associated with the Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage until ERCOT notifies the TSP or Resource Entity of its approval under procedures adopted by ERCOT.  ERCOT shall evaluate requests under Section 3.1.5.11, Evaluation of Transmission Facilities Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage Requests.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	A TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity shall request a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage when any Transmission Facility that is part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and defined in the Network Operations Model will be removed from its normal service.  For Resource Entities within a Private Use Network, this only includes Transmission Facilities at the Point of Interconnection (POI).  For TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity requests, the requesting Entity shall enter such a request in the Outage Scheduler.  Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages for Electrical Buses will be treated as consequentially outaged Transmission Elements.  In those cases where a TSP or DCTO enters the breaker and switch statuses associated with an Electrical Bus, a downstream topology processor will evaluate the breakers and switches associated with the applicable Electrical Bus to determine if the Electrical Bus is consequentially outaged, and to thereby designate the status of the Electrical Bus.  Proposed Transmission Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage information submitted by a TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity in accordance with this Section constitutes a request for ERCOT’s approval of the Outage Schedule associated with the Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage.  ERCOT is not deemed to have approved the Outage Schedule associated with the Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage until ERCOT notifies the TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity of its approval under procedures adopted by ERCOT.  ERCOT shall evaluate requests under Section 3.1.5.11, Evaluation of Transmission Facilities Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage Requests.
(2)	ERCOT shall review and approve Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages of Transmission Facilities schedules.  ERCOT shall transmit its approvals and rejections to TSPs via the ERCOT Outage Scheduler.  Once approved, ERCOT may not withdraw its approval except under the conditions described in Section 3.1.5.7, Withdrawal of Approval of Approved Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	ERCOT shall review and approve Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages of Transmission Facilities schedules.  ERCOT shall transmit its approvals and rejections to TSPs and DCTOs via the ERCOT Outage Scheduler.  Once approved, ERCOT may not withdraw its approval except under the conditions described in Section 3.1.5.7, Withdrawal of Approval of Approved Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities.
(3)	Private Use Network Outage requests submitted pursuant to this Section shall not be publicly posted.
(4)	To the extent authorized by its tariff, an External Load Serving Entity (ELSE) or Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) that provides retail service to a Resource Entity that owns or operates a Generation Resource may request that the TSP to which the Generation Resource is interconnected disconnect the Generation Resource due to the Resource Entity’s failure to comply with the payment requirements in the ELSE’s or NOIE’s retail tariff.  
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	To the extent authorized by its tariff, an External Load Serving Entity (ELSE) or Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) that provides retail service to a Resource Entity that owns or operates a Generation Resource or ESR may request that the TSP to which the Resource is interconnected disconnect the Resource due to the Resource Entity’s failure to comply with the payment requirements in the ELSE’s or NOIE’s retail tariff.
(5)	Within five Business Days after receiving a request from a Load Serving Entity (LSE) to disconnect a Generation Resource due to the Resource Entity’s failure to comply with LSE’s payment requirements, including a request received pursuant to paragraph (4) above, the interconnecting TSP shall enter a request in the Outage Scheduler for an Outage of any Transmission Facilities interconnecting the Generation Resource to the ERCOT System.  Any Outage requested or taken pursuant to this Section shall be treated as a Planned Outage for all purposes under the Protocols.  For any such Outage request, the requesting TSP shall enter a start date that it is at least four days after the date the request is submitted in the Outage Scheduler and shall enter an Outage end date that is 14 days from the date of the requested start date.  Unless storm or system reliability issues prevent immediate dispatch of personnel, for any LSE request to reconnect a Customer that was disconnected pursuant to this section, the interconnecting TSP shall end the Outage and reconnect the Generation Resource the same Business Day if the request is received by 1200, or the next Business Day if the request is received after 1200.  If a reconnect request is not received within four days of the Outage end date, the interconnecting TSP shall enter another request in the Outage Scheduler for an Outage of any Transmission Facilities interconnecting the Generation Resource to the ERCOT System with an Outage end date 14 days beyond the prior Outage end date.  At any time, ERCOT may withdraw approval of the Outage and instruct the TSP to reconnect the Generation Resource if it deems cancellation necessary to address reliability concerns.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(5)	Within five Business Days after receiving a request from a Load Serving Entity (LSE) to disconnect a Generation Resource or ESR due to the Resource Entity’s failure to comply with LSE’s payment requirements, including a request received pursuant to paragraph (4) above, the interconnecting TSP shall enter a request in the Outage Scheduler for an Outage of any Transmission Facilities interconnecting the Resource to the ERCOT System.  Any Outage requested or taken pursuant to this Section shall be treated as a Planned Outage for all purposes under the Protocols.  For any such Outage request, the requesting TSP shall enter a start date that it is at least four days after the date the request is submitted in the Outage Scheduler and shall enter an Outage end date that is 14 days from the date of the requested start date.  Unless storm or system reliability issues prevent immediate dispatch of personnel, for any LSE request to reconnect a Customer that was disconnected pursuant to this section, the interconnecting TSP shall end the Outage and reconnect the Resource the same Business Day if the request is received by 1200, or the next Business Day if the request is received after 1200.  If a reconnect request is not received within four days of the Outage end date, the interconnecting TSP shall enter another request in the Outage Scheduler for an Outage of any Transmission Facilities interconnecting the Resource to the ERCOT System with an Outage end date 14 days beyond the prior Outage end date.  At any time, ERCOT may withdraw approval of the Outage and instruct the TSP to reconnect the Resource if it deems cancellation necessary to address reliability concerns.
3.1.5.2	Receipt of TSP Requests by ERCOT
(1)	ERCOT shall acknowledge each request for approval of a Transmission Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage schedule within two Business Hours of the receipt of the request.  ERCOT may request additional information or seek clarification from the TSP regarding the information submitted for a proposed Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage for Transmission Facilities.
[NPRR857:  Replace Section 3.1.5.2 above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
3.1.5.2	Receipt of TSP and DCTO Requests by ERCOT
(1)	ERCOT shall acknowledge each request for approval of a Transmission Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage schedule within two Business Hours of the receipt of the request.  ERCOT may request additional information or seek clarification from the TSP or DCTO regarding the information submitted for a proposed Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage for Transmission Facilities.
3.1.5.3	Timelines for Response by ERCOT for TSP Requests
(1)	For Transmission Facilities Outages, ERCOT shall approve or reject each request in accordance with the following table:
Amount of time between the request for approval of the proposed Outage and the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage:	ERCOT shall approve or reject no later than:
Three days	1800 hours, two days before the start of the proposed Outage
Between four and eight days	1800 hours, three days before the start of the proposed Outage
Between nine days and 45 days	Four days before the start of the proposed Outage
Between 46 and 90 days	30 days before the start of the proposed Outage 
Greater than 90 days	75 days before the start of the proposed Outage

(2)	For Outages scheduled at least three days before the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage, ERCOT shall make reasonable attempts to accommodate unusual circumstances that support TSP requests for approval earlier than required by the schedule above.
(3)	If circumstances prevent adherence to these timetables, ERCOT shall discuss the request status and reason for the delay of the approval with the requesting TSP and make reasonable attempts to mitigate the effect of the delay on the TSP.
(4)	When ERCOT rejects a request for an Outage, ERCOT shall provide the TSP, in written or electronic form, suggested amendments to the schedules of a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage of Transmission Facilities.  Any such suggested amendments accepted by the TSP must be processed by ERCOT as a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage of Transmission Facilities request under this Section.
[NPRR857:  Replace Section 3.1.5.3 above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
3.1.5.3	Timelines for Response by ERCOT for TSP and DCTO Requests
(1)	For Transmission Facilities Outages, ERCOT shall approve or reject each request in accordance with the following table:
Amount of time between the request for approval of the proposed Outage and the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage:	ERCOT shall approve or reject no later than:
Three days	1800 hours, two days before the start of the proposed Outage
Between four and eight days	1800 hours, three days before the start of the proposed Outage
Between nine days and 45 days	Four days before the start of the proposed Outage
Between 46 and 90 days	30 days before the start of the proposed Outage 
Greater than 90 days	75 days before the start of the proposed Outage

(2)	For Outages scheduled at least three days before the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage, ERCOT shall make reasonable attempts to accommodate unusual circumstances that support TSP and DCTO requests for approval earlier than required by the schedule above.
(3)	If circumstances prevent adherence to these timetables, ERCOT shall discuss the request status and reason for the delay of the approval with the requesting TSP or DCTO and make reasonable attempts to mitigate the effect of the delay on the TSP or DCTO.
(4)	When ERCOT rejects a request for an Outage, ERCOT shall provide the TSP or DCTO, in written or electronic form, suggested amendments to the schedules of a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage of Transmission Facilities.  Any such suggested amendments accepted by the TSP or DCTO must be processed by ERCOT as a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage of Transmission Facilities request under this Section.
3.1.5.4	Delay
(1)	ERCOT may delay its approval or rejection of a proposed Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage of a Transmission Facilities schedule if the requesting TSP has not submitted sufficient or complete information within the time frames set forth in these Protocols.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT may delay its approval or rejection of a proposed Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage of a Transmission Facilities schedule if the requesting TSP or DCTO has not submitted sufficient or complete information within the time frames set forth in these Protocols.
3.1.5.5	Opportunity Outage of Transmission Facilities
(1)	Opportunity Outages of Transmission Facilities may be approved under Section 3.1.6.10, Opportunity Outage.
3.1.5.6	Rejection Notice
(1)	If ERCOT rejects a request, ERCOT shall provide the TSP a written or electronic rejection notice that includes:
(a)	Specific concerns causing the rejection; 
(b)	Possible remedies or transmission schedule revisions, if any that might mitigate the basis for rejection; and
(c)	An electronic copy of the ERCOT study case for review by the TSP.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	If ERCOT rejects a request, ERCOT shall provide the TSP or DCTO a written or electronic rejection notice that includes:
(a)	Specific concerns causing the rejection; 
(b)	Possible remedies or transmission schedule revisions, if any that might mitigate the basis for rejection; and
(c)	An electronic copy of the ERCOT study case for review by the TSP or DCTO.
(2)	ERCOT may reject a Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage of Transmission Facilities only:
(a)	To protect system reliability or security;
(b)	Due to insufficient information regarding the Outage; or
(c)	Due to failure to comply with submittal process requirements, as specified in these Protocols.
(3)	When multiple proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages cause a reliability or security concern, ERCOT shall:
(a)	Communicate with each TSP to see if the TSP will adjust its proposed Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage schedule;
(b)	Determine if each TSP will agree to an alternative Outage schedule; or
(c)	Reject, in ERCOT’s sole discretion, one or more proposed Outages, considering order of receipt and impact on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	When multiple proposed Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, or Rescheduled Outages cause a reliability or security concern, ERCOT shall:
(a)	Communicate with each TSP and DCTO to see if the TSP or DCTO will adjust its proposed Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage schedule;
(b)	Determine if each TSP or DCTO will agree to an alternative Outage schedule; or
(c)	Reject, in ERCOT’s sole discretion, one or more proposed Outages, considering order of receipt and impact on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
3.1.5.7	Withdrawal of Approval of Approved Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages of Transmission Facilities
(1)	If ERCOT believes it cannot meet the applicable reliability standards and has exercised reasonable options, ERCOT may contact the TSP for more information prior to its withdrawal of the approval for a Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage.  ERCOT shall inform the affected TSP both orally and in written or electronic form as soon as ERCOT identifies a situation that may lead to the withdrawal of ERCOT’s approval.  If ERCOT withdraws its approval, the TSP may submit a new request for approval of the Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage schedule provided the new request meets the submittal requirements for Outage Scheduling.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	If ERCOT believes it cannot meet the applicable reliability standards and has exercised reasonable options, ERCOT may contact the TSP or DCTO for more information prior to its withdrawal of the approval for a Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage.  ERCOT shall inform the affected TSP or DCTO both orally and in written or electronic form as soon as ERCOT identifies a situation that may lead to the withdrawal of ERCOT’s approval.  If ERCOT withdraws its approval, the TSP or DCTO may submit a new request for approval of the Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage schedule provided the new request meets the submittal requirements for Outage Scheduling.
(2)	In determining whether to withdraw approval, ERCOT shall duly consider whether the Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage affects public infrastructure if ERCOT is made aware of such potential impacts by the TSP (e.g., impacts on highways, ports, municipalities, and counties).
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	In determining whether to withdraw approval, ERCOT shall duly consider whether the Planned Outage, Maintenance Outage, or Rescheduled Outage affects public infrastructure if ERCOT is made aware of such potential impacts by the TSP or DCTO (e.g., impacts on highways, ports, municipalities, and counties).
(3)	Prior to withdrawing the approval of a High Impact Outage (HIO) submitted with greater than 90-days’ notice, ERCOT shall coordinate with the TSP and may convert the Planned Outage to a Rescheduled Outage.  The Rescheduled Outage shall retain the same priority as the original Planned Outage.  ERCOT shall attempt to keep the Outage within the same calendar month.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Prior to withdrawing the approval of a High Impact Outage (HIO) submitted with greater than 90-days’ notice, ERCOT shall coordinate with the TSP or DCTO and may convert the Planned Outage to a Rescheduled Outage.  The Rescheduled Outage shall retain the same priority as the original Planned Outage.  ERCOT shall attempt to keep the Outage within the same calendar month.
3.1.5.8	Priority of Approved Planned, Maintenance, and Rescheduled Outages
(1)	In considering TSP requests, ERCOT shall give priority to Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages in the order of receipt.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	In considering TSP or DCTO requests, ERCOT shall give priority to Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages in the order of receipt.
3.1.5.9	Information for Inclusion in Transmission Facilities Outage Requests
(1)	Transmission Facilities Outage requests submitted by a TSP must include the following Transmission Facilities-specific information:
(a)	The identity of the Transmission Facilities, in the Network Operations Model, including TSP and location; 
(b)	The nature of the work, by predefined classifications, to be performed during the proposed Transmission Facilities Outage; 
(c)	The preferred start and finish dates for the proposed Transmission Planned or Maintenance Outage;
(d)	The time required to: (i) finish the Transmission Planned Outage or  Maintenance Outage and (ii) restore the Transmission Facilities to normal operation;
(e)	Primary and alternate telephone numbers for the TSP’s Single Point of Contact, as described in Section 3.1.4.1, Single Point of Contact, and the name of the individual submitting the information; 
(f)	The scheduling flexibility (i.e., the earliest start date and the latest finish date for the Outage);
(g)	Any Transmission Facilities that must be out of service to facilitate the TSP’s request;
(h)	Any remedial actions or special protection systems necessary during the Outage and the contingency that would require the remedial action or relay action; and
(i)	Any other relevant information related to the proposed Outage or any unusual risks affecting the schedule.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Transmission Facilities Outage requests submitted by a TSP or a DCTO must include the following Transmission Facilities-specific information:
(a)	The identity of the Transmission Facilities, in the Network Operations Model, including TSP or DCTO and location; 
(b)	The nature of the work, by predefined classifications, to be performed during the proposed Transmission Facilities Outage; 
(c)	The preferred start and finish dates for the proposed Transmission Planned or Maintenance Outage;
(d)	The time required to: (i) finish the Transmission Planned Outage or  Maintenance Outage and (ii) restore the Transmission Facilities to normal operation;
(e)	Primary and alternate telephone numbers for the TSP’s or DCTO’s Single Point of Contact, as described in Section 3.1.4.1, Single Point of Contact, and the name of the individual submitting the information; 
(f)	The scheduling flexibility (i.e., the earliest start date and the latest finish date for the Outage);
(g)	Any Transmission Facilities that must be out of service to facilitate the TSP’s or DCTO’s request;
(h)	Any remedial actions or special protection systems necessary during the Outage and the contingency that would require the remedial action or relay action; and
(i)	Any other relevant information related to the proposed Outage or any unusual risks affecting the schedule.
3.1.5.10	Additional Information Requests
(1)	The requesting TSP shall comply with any ERCOT requests for more information about, or for clarification of, the information submitted by the TSP for a proposed Outage.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	The requesting TSP or DCTO shall comply with any ERCOT requests for more information about, or for clarification of, the information submitted by the TSP or DCTO for a proposed Outage.
3.1.5.11	Evaluation of Transmission Facilities Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage Requests
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate requests, approve, or reject Transmission Facilities Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages according to the requirements of this section.  ERCOT may approve Outage requests provided the Outage in combination with other proposed Outages does not cause a violation of applicable reliability standards.  ERCOT shall reject Outage requests that do not meet the submittal timeline specified in Section 3.1.5.12, Submittal Timeline for Transmission Facility Outage Requests.  ERCOT shall consider the following factors in its evaluation:
(a)	Forecasted conditions during the time of the Outage;
(b)	Outage plans submitted by Resource Entities and TSPs under Section 3.1, Outage Coordination;
[NPRR857:  Replace item (b) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(b)	Outage plans submitted by Resource Entities, TSPs, and DCTOs under Section 3.1, Outage Coordination;
(c)	Forced Outages of Transmission Facilities;
(d)	Potential for the proposed Outages to cause irresolvable transmission overloads or voltage supply concerns based on the indications from contingency analysis software;
(e)	Potential for the proposed Outages to cause SSR vulnerability to Generation Resources that do not have SSR Mitigation in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages;
[NPRR1246:  Replace item (e) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(e)	Potential for the proposed Outages to cause SSR vulnerability to Generation Resources or ESRs that do not have SSR Mitigation in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages;
(f)	Previously approved Planned Outages, Maintenance Outages, and Rescheduled Outages;
(g)	Impacts on the transfer capability of Direct Current Ties (DC Ties); and
(h)	Good Utility Practice for Transmission Facilities maintenance.
(2)	When ERCOT approves a Maintenance Outage, ERCOT shall coordinate the timing of the appropriate course of action with the requesting TSP. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	When ERCOT approves a Maintenance Outage, ERCOT shall coordinate the timing of the appropriate course of action with the requesting TSP or DCTO. 
(3)	When ERCOT identifies that an HIO has been submitted with 90-days or less notice, ERCOT may coordinate with TSP to make reasonable efforts to minimize the impact.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	When ERCOT identifies that an HIO has been submitted with 90-days or less notice, ERCOT may coordinate with the TSP or DCTO to make reasonable efforts to minimize the impact.
3.1.5.12	Submittal Timeline for Transmission Facility Outage Requests




(1)	TSPs shall submit all requests for Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages or changes to existing approved Outages of Transmission Elements in the Network Operations Model to ERCOT no later than the minimum amount of time between the submittal of a request to ERCOT for approval of a proposed Outage and the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage, according to the following table:
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	TSPs and DCTOs shall submit all requests for Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages or changes to existing approved Outages of Transmission Elements in the Network Operations Model to ERCOT no later than the minimum amount of time between the submittal of a request to ERCOT for approval of a proposed Outage and the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage, according to the following table:


Type of Outage	Minimum amount of time between the Outage request  and the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage:	Minimum amount of time between any change to an Outage request and the scheduled end date an existing Outage:
Forced Outage	Immediate	Immediate
Maintenance Outage Level I	Immediate	Immediate
Maintenance Outage Level II	Two days [1]	Two days [1]
Maintenance Outage Level III	Three days	Three days 
Planned Outage	Three days	Three days
Simple Transmission Outage	One day	One day
Note:
1.	For reliability purposes, ERCOT may reduce to one day on a case-by-case basis.
3.1.5.13	Transmission Report
(1)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area:
(a)	Within one hour of receipt by ERCOT, all Transmission Facilities Outages that have been submitted into the ERCOT Outage Scheduler, excluding Private Use Network transmission Outages;
(b) 	Within one hour of a change of an Outage, all Transmission Facilities Outages, excluding Private Use Network transmission Outages; 
(c) 	Once each day, Outage Scheduler notes related to the coordination of Outages;
(d)	At least annually, an updated list of High Impact Transmission Elements (HITEs) pursuant to Section 3.1.8, High Impact Transmission Element (HITE) Identification; and
(e)	Once each day, list of HIOs submitted with 90-days or less notice that are accepted or approved.
[NPRR1240:  Insert paragraph (f) below upon system implementation:]
(f)	An updated list of current and future equipment in the Outage Scheduler by operator.
3.1.6	Outages of Resources Other than Reliability Resources
(1)	Resource Entities should submit a request for a Resource Planned Outage as far in advance of the planned start of the Outage as is practicable but no more than 60 months in advance.
(2)	ERCOT shall approve or reject all requested Outage plans for a Resource other than a Reliability Resource submitted to ERCOT more than 45 days before the proposed start date of the Outage.
(a)	ERCOT shall approve a requested Outage plan for a Resource other than a Reliability Resource if the proposed approval would not cause the aggregate MW of Resource Outages to exceed the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity at any point during the duration of the proposed Resource Outage, taking into consideration all previously approved Resource Outages.
(3)	If a Resource Entity plans to start a Planned or Maintenance Outage within 45 days, and the Resource Entity has not previously submitted a Resource Outage plan for the Outage, then the Resource Entity must immediately notify ERCOT and include in its notice whether the Outage is a Maintenance (Level I, II, or III) Outage or Planned Outage.  ERCOT’s response to this notification must comply with these requirements:
(a)	ERCOT shall accept Levels I, II, and III Maintenance Outage plans, and ERCOT shall coordinate the Outages within the time frames specified in these Protocols. 
(b)	ERCOT shall approve Planned Outage plans, except that:
(i)	ERCOT shall reject an Outage plan if the proposed Outage would cause the aggregate MW of Resource Outages to exceed the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity at any point during the duration of the proposed Outage; and 
(ii)	ERCOT shall reject an Outage plan if it will impair ERCOT’s ability to meet applicable reliability standards, taking into consideration all previously approved and accepted Outages, and other solutions cannot be exercised.
(4)	The Resource Entity shall not begin a Planned Outage unless it has received approval of its proposed Outage plan.
(5)	ERCOT shall accept Forced Outage plans. 
(6)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, ERCOT shall approve a requested Outage plan for a nuclear Generation Resource. 
(7)	Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, ERCOT shall approve an Outage plan for a Generation Resource that is part of an industrial generation facility if the plan states that the Generation Resource is part of an industrial generation facility, as described in subsection (l) of the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA), TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 39.151 (Vernon 1998 & Supp. 2007), and that the Outage is necessitated by the operational needs of an industrial Load normally served by the Generation Resource, except that ERCOT is not required to approve the Outage plan if ERCOT determines the Outage will impair ERCOT’s ability to ensure transmission security.
3.1.6.1	Receipt of Resource Requests by ERCOT
(1)	ERCOT shall acknowledge each request for approval of a Resource Planned Outage plan within two Business Hours of the receipt of the request.  ERCOT may request additional information or seek clarification from the Resource Entity regarding the information submitted for a proposed Planned Outage or Maintenance Outage for Resource Facilities.
3.1.6.2	Resource Outage Plan
(1)	Resource Outage plans shall include the following information:
(a)	The primary and alternate phone number of the Resource Entity’s Single Point of Contact for Outage Coordination;
(b)	The Resource identified by the name in the Network Operations Model; 
(c)	The net megawatts of capacity the Resource Entity anticipates will be available during the Outage (if any);
(d)	The estimated start and finish dates for each Planned and Maintenance Outage;
(e)	An estimate of the acceptable deviation in the Outage schedule (i.e., the earliest start date and the latest finish date for the Outage); and
(f)	The nature of work to be performed during the Outage.  For a Forced Outage or Forced Derate, the “nature of work” field in the Outage Scheduler shall indicate the best available information about the cause of the Forced Outage or Forced Derate at the time the Outage or derate is entered and shall be updated as soon as more accurate information becomes available.
(2)	When ERCOT accepts a Maintenance Outage, ERCOT shall coordinate the timing of the appropriate course of action within the Resource-specified timeframe.  The QSE shall notify ERCOT of the Outage and coordinate the time.
3.1.6.3	Additional Information Requests
(1)	ERCOT may request additional information from a Resource Entity regarding the information submitted as part of a Resource Outage plan.  ERCOT may not unnecessarily delay requests for information in terms of the required response time.
3.1.6.4	Approval of Changes to a Resource Outage Plan 
(1)	A Resource Entity should request approval as soon as practicable from ERCOT for all changes to a previously approved Resource Outage plan.  
(2)	A Resource Entity must request approval from ERCOT for all changes to a previously approved Resource Planned Outage.
(a)	ERCOT shall approve requests for changes to Resource Planned Outages and Maintenance Outages, except that: 
(i)	ERCOT shall reject a Resource Outage plan change request if the proposed approval would cause the aggregate MW of Resource Outages to exceed the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity at any point during the duration of the proposed Resource Outage; and
(ii)	ERCOT shall reject a Resource Outage plan change request if the proposed approval will impair ERCOT’s ability to meet applicable reliability standards, taking into consideration all previously approved and accepted Outages. 
(3)	Following approval, where ERCOT determines that the Resource Outage plan is expected to result in a violation of an ERCOT reliability criterion or that may result in a cancellation of a Transmission Facilities Planned Outage, ERCOT may discuss such concerns with the Resource Entity or QSE in an attempt to reach a mutually agreeable resolution, including rescheduling the Outage in a manner agreeable to the Resource Entity.  If the Transmission Facilities Planned Outage was submitted after the approval of the Resource Planned Outage, the Resource Entity is not required to reschedule the Resource Outage.
(4)	When the scheduled work is complete, any Resource may return from a Planned Outage in accordance with Section 3.1.6.11, Outage Returning Early.  ERCOT shall accept this change and, in the event that a Transmission Facilities Outage was scheduled concurrently with the affected Resource(s) Outage, ERCOT shall coordinate between the TSP and the Resource Entity to schedule a time mutually agreeable to both parties for the Resource to be On-Line.  If mutual agreement cannot be reached, then ERCOT shall decide, considering expected impact on ERCOT System security, future Outage plans, and participants.
3.1.6.5	Evaluation of Proposed Resource Outage
(1)	If a proposed Resource Outage, in conjunction with previously accepted Outages, would cause a violation of applicable reliability standards, ERCOT shall:
(a)	Communicate with the requesting QSE as required under Section 3.1.6.8, Resource Outage Rejection Notice;
(b)	Investigate possible Constraint Management Plans (CMPs) to resolve security violations, based upon security and reliability analysis results and strive to maximize transmission usage consistent with reliable operation; and
(c)	Consider modifying the previous acceptance or approval of one or more Transmission Facilities or reliability Resource Outages, considering order of receipt and impact to the ERCOT System.
(2)	If transmission security can be maintained using an alternative considered in items (1)(b) and (1)(c) above, then ERCOT may, in its judgment, direct the selected alternatives and approve the proposed Resource Outage.
(3)	If ERCOT does not resolve transmission security issues by using the alternatives considered in items (1)(b) and (1)(c) above, then ERCOT shall reject the proposed Resource Outage.
3.1.6.6	Timelines for Response by ERCOT for Resource Planned Outages
(1)	ERCOT shall approve or reject each request in accordance with the following table: 
Amount of time between a request for approval of a Planned Outage and the scheduled start of the proposed Outage:	Maximum duration of a Planned Outage that may be approved with this lead time:	ERCOT shall approve or reject no later than: 
Three days	Seven days	ERCOT shall approve or reject by 1800 hours, two days before the start of the proposed Outage
Between four and eight days	Seven days	ERCOT shall approve or reject by 1800 hours, three days prior to the start of the proposed Outage
Between nine and 15 days	15 days	ERCOT shall approve or reject four days before the start of the requested Outage
Between 16 and 45 days	180 days	ERCOT shall approve or reject within five Business Days after submission
Greater than 45 days but less than 60 months	180 days	ERCOT shall approve or reject within five Business Days after submission
Greater than 60 months	180 days	ERCOT shall approve or reject within five Business Days once the Outage start dates are within the 60-month window
(2)	If circumstances prevent adherence to these timetables, ERCOT shall discuss the request status and reason for the delay of decision with the QSE and make reasonable attempts to mitigate the effect of the delay.  Furthermore, in its sole discretion, ERCOT may approve Planned Outage durations that exceed the maximum durations prescribed in the table above.
(3)	The maximum duration of Planned Outages does not apply for Resource Outages under a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) pursuant to Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations.
3.1.6.7		Delay
(1)	ERCOT may delay its approval or rejection of a proposed Planned Outage plan if the requesting Resource Entity has not submitted sufficient or complete information within the time frames set forth in this Section 3.1.6, Outages of Resources Other than Reliability Resources.  Review periods for Planned Outage consideration do not commence until sufficient and complete information is submitted to ERCOT as described in Section 3.1.6.2, Resource Outage Plan.
3.1.6.8	Resource Outage Rejection Notice
(1)	If ERCOT rejects a request for a Planned Outage, ERCOT shall provide the QSE a written or electronic rejection notice that includes:
(a)	Specific reasons causing the rejection; or
(b)	Possible remedies or Resource schedule revisions, if any, that might mitigate the basis for rejection.
(2)	ERCOT may reject a Planned Outage of Resource facilities only:
(a)	To protect the reliability or security of the ERCOT System;
(b)	Due to insufficient information regarding the Outage;
(c)	Due to failure to comply with submittal process requirements, as specified in these Protocols;
(d)	To stay within the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity; or
(e)	As specified elsewhere in these Protocols.
(3)	When multiple proposed Planned Outages or Maintenance Outages cause a known capacity conflict, ERCOT shall:
(a)	Communicate with each QSE to see if the QSE will adjust its proposed Planned Outage schedule;
(b)	Determine if each QSE will agree to an alternative Outage schedule; or
(c)	Reject, in ERCOT’s sole discretion, one or more proposed Outages, considering order of receipt and impact to the ERCOT System.
3.1.6.9	Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities
(1)	If ERCOT believes it cannot meet applicable reliability standards and has exercised all other reasonable options, and any actions taken pursuant to Section 3.1.4.6, Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions, have not resolved the situation, then ERCOT shall conduct a preliminary Outage Adjustment Evaluation (OAE) and issue an Advance Action Notice (AAN) pursuant to Section 6.5.9.3.1.1, Advance Action Notice.  
(a)	The AAN shall describe the reliability problem, the date and time that the possible Emergency Condition would begin, the date and time that the possible Emergency Condition would end, and a summary of the actions ERCOT believes it might take, including, if applicable, the amount of capacity it would seek from one or more OSAs based on the preliminary OAE.  The AAN must state the earliest time at which ERCOT will issue OSAs, if an OSA is deemed necessary.
(b)	ERCOT shall issue the AAN a minimum of 24 hours prior to issuing any OSA.  Additionally, unless impracticable pursuant to paragraph (3)(f) below, OSAs should not be issued until eight Business Hours have elapsed following issuance of the AAN.  ERCOT shall not issue an OSA under this Section unless it has first completed an updated OAE after these time periods have passed.
(c)	Following the AAN, ERCOT may communicate with Market Participants about the reliability problem, however, ERCOT may not provide information about market conditions to a subset of Market Participants that is not generally available to all Market Participants.  
(d)	As conditions change, ERCOT shall, to the extent practicable, update the AAN in order to provide simultaneous notice to Market Participants.  
(e)	This section does not limit Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) access to ERCOT data and communications. 
(2)	Before the time stated in the AAN when ERCOT will issue any OSAs, each QSE shall:
(a) 	Update its Resource COPs and the Outage Scheduler to the best of its ability to reflect any decisions to voluntarily delay or cancel any Outage so as to remove the Outage from updated OAE and OSA consideration;  
(b) 	Notify ERCOT if a specific Resource cannot be considered for an OSA, for all or part of the period covered by the AAN, due to Resource reliability, compliance with contractual warranty obligations, or other reasons beyond the Resource’s control; and
(c)	Notify ERCOT of any Resource that is currently on Outage that the QSE agrees could be returned to service, upon receipt of an OSA, for all or part of the period covered by the AAN.
(3)	If, after the earliest OSA issuance time has passed as noted in paragraph (1)(b) above, ERCOT continues to forecast an inability to meet applicable reliability standards after the updates to the Resource COPs and Outage Schedules, ERCOT may issue one or more OSAs.  
(a)	ERCOT may contact QSEs representing Resources for more information prior to conducting any updated OAE or issuing an OSA.
(b)	ERCOT may not consider nuclear-powered Generation Resources for an OSA.
(c)	ERCOT will not consider any Resource for an OSA if the Resource’s QSE notified ERCOT prior to the earliest issuance time of any OSA stated in the AAN that the Resource cannot be considered for an OSA for the reasons specified in paragraph (2)(b) above.
(d)	In order to determine which Outages to delay, ERCOT shall first consider the Outage duration, dividing the Outages in categories of zero to two days, two to four days, four to seven days, or more than seven days, then withdraw approval on a last in, first out basis within that duration category, so that shorter Outages are delayed first, and the timing of Outage submissions is considered within that category.
(e)	After the earliest issuance time of the OSAs stated in the AAN, if the updated OAE shows that one or more OSAs is still necessary, ERCOT shall post a message to the ERCOT website stating that it will issue one or more OSAs and shall provide verbal notice to TSPs and QSEs via the Hotline.  Subsequent to this notification, and for the entire period identified in the AAN, the QSE may not voluntarily modify the Resource’s Outage, but is subject to the issuance of an OSA.
(f)	ERCOT may only issue an OSA to the QSE for a Resource that has a Resource Outage in the Outage Scheduler during the timeframe of the forecasted Emergency Condition described above in this section.
(g)	If the Resource Outage for which the OSA would be issued is scheduled to begin before eight Business Hours have elapsed following issuance of the AAN, ERCOT may issue the OSA prior to the beginning of the Resource Outage after the end of the 24-hour notice period.
(h)	Following the receipt of an OSA, for the OSA Period: 
(i)	The QSE for the Resource may choose to show the Resource as OFF in the COP or may elect to leave the Resource On-Line due to equipment or reliability concerns or if the Resource Category is coal or lignite.  If the QSE for the Resource intends to leave the Resource On-Line, it must communicate to the ERCOT control room the anticipated start and end time of the On-Line period.  ERCOT will issue one or multiple RUC instructions to the QSE of the Resource for the anticipated On-Line period within the OSA Period for each Operating Day.  While On-Line, the Resource must utilize a status of ONRUC and cannot opt out of RUC Settlement;
(ii)	If the Resource remains On-Line pursuant to paragraph (i) above, it must remain at Low Sustained Limit (LSL) unless deployed above LSL by Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED);
(iii)	If the Resource has a COP Resource Status of OFF at any point during the OSA Period, and ERCOT requires the Resource to be On-Line, or if ERCOT requires a Resource with a planned derate to maintain its capacity, ERCOT will issue a RUC instruction to the Resource’s QSE for the required commitment period.  While On-Line, the Resource must utilize a status of ONRUC and cannot opt out of RUC Settlement; 
(iv)	The QSE must update the Resource’s Energy Offer Curve to $4,500/MWh for all MW levels from 0 MW to the HSL when the High System-Wide Offer Cap (HCAP) is in effect.  If the Low-System Wide Offer Cap (LCAP) is in effect, the QSE must update the Resource’s Energy Offer Curve equal to LCAP for all MW levels from 0 MW to HSL; and
[NPRR930:  Replace paragraph (iv) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(iv)	ERCOT shall create proxy Energy Offer Curves for the Resource under paragraph (4)(d)(iii) of Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch; and
(v)	The QSE for the Resource cannot submit a Three Part Supply Offer into the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) for any Operating Day during the OSA Period.
(4)	ERCOT shall work in good faith with the QSEs to reschedule any delayed or canceled Outages resulting from an AAN under paragraph (1) above, regardless of whether the Resource took voluntary actions or received an OSA.  The Outage must be rescheduled so that it is completed within 120 days of the end of the OSA Period.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may approve any Outage that is rescheduled due to an AAN or OSA even if it would cause the aggregate MW of approved Resource Outages to exceed the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity.
(a)	If ERCOT issues an OSA, the QSE may submit a new request for approval of the Planned Outage schedule, however the new Outage may not begin prior to the end time of the OSA Period.  
(b)	If a transmission Outage was scheduled in coordination with a Resource Outage that is delayed, ERCOT shall also delay that transmission Outage when necessary.
(5)	If insufficient capacity to meet the need described in the AAN is made available through the processes described in paragraphs (2) and (3) above, ERCOT may contact QSEs with Resources that are currently on Outage in the Outage Scheduler and that the QSE has agreed could be returned to service upon receipt of an OSA.  ERCOT may issue an OSA to the QSE for any Resource that the QSE agrees can feasibly be returned to service during the period of the possible Emergency Condition described in the AAN.
(6)	If system conditions change such that the need described in the AAN increases, ERCOT shall update the AAN and may repeat the process described in this section.  For any subsequent iterations of this process, ERCOT shall issue the updated AAN with as much lead time as is practical prior to starting any subsequent OAE, but with a minimum of two hours’ notice. 
(7)	The preliminary OAE may not assume total renewable production lower than the sum of the selected Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP) and PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP) forecasts for each hour less any reasonably expected severe weather impacts.  The available capacity in ERCOT’s planning assessment must include targeted reserve levels and include forecasted capacity available through DC Tie imports or curtailment of DC Tie exports, forecasted capacity provided from Settlement Only Distributed Generators (SODGs) and Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), and forecasted capacity from price-responsive Demand based on information reported to ERCOT in accordance with Section 3.10.7.2.1, Reporting of Demand Response.  ERCOT must post the following inputs to the preliminary OAE to the ERCOT website within an hour of issuing an AAN, including but not limited to:
(a)	The Load forecast; 
(b)	Load forecast vendor selection;
(c)	Wind forecast;
(d)	Wind forecast vendor selection;
(e)	Solar forecast;
(f)	Solar forecast vendor selection;
(g)	Expected severe weather impacts forecast;
(h)	Targeted reserve levels;
(i)	DC Tie import forecast;
(j)	DC Tie export curtailment forecast;
(k)	SODG and SOTG forecasts; 
(l)	The forecast of capacity provided by price-responsive Demand;
(m)	Any aggregate derating of Resource(s) and/or Forced Outage assumptions in total MWs; and
(n)	Any aggregate fuel derating assumptions in total MWs.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(7)	The preliminary OAE may not assume total renewable production lower than the sum of the selected Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP) and PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP) forecasts for each hour less any reasonably expected severe weather impacts.  The available capacity in ERCOT’s preliminary OAE must include targeted reserve levels and include forecasted capacity available through DC Tie imports or curtailment of DC Tie exports, forecasted capacity provided from Settlement Only Distributed Generators (SODGs), Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage Systems (SODESSs), and Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage Systems (SOTESSs), and forecasted capacity from price-responsive Demand based on information reported to ERCOT in accordance with Section 3.10.7.2.1, Reporting of Demand Response.  ERCOT must post the following inputs to the preliminary OAE to the ERCOT website within an hour of issuing an AAN, including but not limited to:
(a)	The Load forecast; 
(b)	Load forecast vendor selection;
(c)	Wind forecast;
(d)	Wind forecast vendor selection;
(e)	Solar forecast;
(f)	Solar forecast vendor selection;
(g)	Expected severe weather impacts forecast;
(h)	Targeted reserve levels;
(i)	DC Tie import forecast;
(j)	DC Tie export curtailment forecast;
(k)	SODG, SOTG, SODESS, and SOTESS forecasts; 
(l)	The forecast of capacity provided by price-responsive Demand;
(m)	Any aggregate derating of Resource(s) and/or Forced Outage assumptions in total MWs; and
(n)	Any aggregate fuel derating assumptions in total MWs.
(8)	Notwithstanding anything in this Section, ERCOT need not comply with any other requirement in this Section if the occurrence of an unforeseen Real-Time condition requires that ERCOT withdraw approval of one or more Resource Outages in order to meet applicable reliability standards.  The unforeseen Real-Time condition cannot be the result of changes that Ancillary Services are procured to address.  In exercising its discretion under this paragraph, ERCOT is not required to issue an AAN or OAE before issuing an OSA, but shall:
(a)	Issue the OSA to the QSE of the Resource for the purpose of make whole compensation; and
(b)	Present the justification for the out of market action to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) at its next meeting that is at least 14 Business Days after the OSA.
3.1.6.10	Opportunity Outage
(1)	Opportunity Outages for Resources are a special category of Planned Outages that may be approved by ERCOT when a specific Resource has been forced Off-Line due to a Forced Outage and the Resource has been previously approved for a Planned Outage during the next two days.
(2)	When a Forced Outage occurs on a Resource that has an approved Outage scheduled within the following two days, the Resource may remain Off-Line and start the approved Outage earlier than scheduled.  The QSE must give as much notice as practicable to ERCOT.
(3)	Opportunity Outages of Transmission Facilities may be approved by ERCOT when a specific Resource is Off-Line due to a Forced, Planned or Maintenance Outage.  A TSP may request an Opportunity Outage at any time.  
(4)	When an Outage occurs on a Resource that has an approved Transmission Facilities Opportunity Outage request on file, the TSP may start the approved Outage as soon as practical after receiving authorization to proceed by ERCOT.  ERCOT must give as much notice as practicable to the TSP.
3.1.6.11	Outage Returning Early
(1)	A Resource that completes a Planned Outage early and wants to resume operation shall notify ERCOT of the early return prior to resuming service by making appropriate entries in the COP or Outage Scheduler if applicable as much in advance as practicable, but not later than at least two hours prior to beginning startup.  Within two hours of receiving such request, ERCOT shall either:
(a) 	Approve the request unless, as a result of complying with the request, ERCOT cannot maintain system reliability or security with the Resource injection.  In such a case, ERCOT shall issue a Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the Resource’s QSE to stay Off-Line; or 
(b) 	Coordinate between the TSP and Resource Entity to schedule a time agreeable to both parties for the Resource to be Off-Line in the event if that a Transmission Facilities Outage requires the affected Resource to be Off-Line. If mutual agreement is not reached, then ERCOT shall decide on the appropriate time, after considering expected impacts on system security, future Outage plans, and participants and issue a VDI to the Resource’s QSE to stay Off-Line. 
(2)	Before an early return from an Outage, a Resource Entity or QSE may inquire of ERCOT whether the Resource is expected to be decommitted by ERCOT upon its early return.  If a Resource Entity or QSE is notified by ERCOT that the Resource will be decommitted if it returns early and the Resource Entity or QSE starts the Resource within the previously accepted or approved Outage period, then the QSE representing the Resource will not be paid any decommitment compensation as otherwise would be provided for in Section 5.7, Settlement for RUC Process. 
3.1.6.12	Resource Coming On-Line
(1)	Before start-up and synchronizing On-Line, a Resource Entity or QSE may inquire of ERCOT whether the Resource is expected to be decommitted by ERCOT upon its coming On-Line.  If a Resource Entity or QSE is notified by ERCOT that the Resource will be decommitted if the Resource comes On-Line and the Resource Entity or QSE starts the Resource, then the QSE representing the Resource will not be paid any decommitment compensation as otherwise would be provided for in Section 5.7.3, Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource.
3.1.6.13	Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity
(1)	ERCOT shall calculate a maximum capacity of Resource Planned Outages, excluding Outages of nuclear-powered generation facilities and Outages of QFs that are subject to the exemption in paragraph (7) of Section 3.1.6, Outages of Resources Other than Reliability Resources, that should be allowed on each day of the next 60 months.
(a)	For days more than seven days ahead of the Operating Day, the calculation of this Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity will be based on seasonal assumptions, planned Resources that have met the criteria in Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, Planned Outages of nuclear Generation Resources, Planned Outages of QFs that are subject to the exemption in paragraph (7) of Section 3.1.6, and the long-term Load forecast.  ERCOT shall update the calculation of the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity for the next 60 months twice per month.
(b)	For days that are seven days or less prior to the Operating Day, the calculation of this Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity will be based on the inputs used for the planning assessment for an OAE described in Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities.  ERCOT shall update the calculation of the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity for each hour of the next seven days on a rolling daily basis.
(c)	ERCOT shall post the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity and aggregate MW of approved Resource Planned Outages at least twice per day on the ERCOT website for each day of the next 60 months.
(d)	ERCOT shall post the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity and aggregate MW of approved Resource Planned Outages hourly on the ERCOT website for each hour of the next seven days.
(2)	ERCOT may adjust the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity if, at any point in time, the actual aggregate Forced Outages and Maintenance Outages exceed the amount that is used in the assessment of the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity.
(3)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the methodology it uses to calculate the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity in accordance with the parameters established by paragraphs (1) and (2) above.  The methodology and any revisions thereto shall be approved by the ERCOT Board of Directors.  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice describing any revision and the justification for such revision and shall provide at least 14 days for stakeholder comment on the proposed revision unless ERCOT determines that, due to an actual or anticipated Emergency Condition, a shorter comment period is warranted.  Upon adopting a change to the methodology, ERCOT shall post the revised methodology on the ERCOT website and issue a Market Notice announcing the posting.
3.1.6.14	Distribution Facility Outages Impacting Distribution Generation Resources and Distribution Energy Storage Resources
(1)       	A Distribution Service Provider (DSP) must notify the party designated by the Distribution Generation Resource (DGR) or Distribution Energy Storage Resource (DESR) (Resource Entity or QSE) if the DSP plans to take an outage on any distribution facility that will impact the operation of a DGR or DESR.  The Resource Entity for the DGR or DESR shall submit a Planned or Maintenance Resource Outage, as appropriate, to reflect the unavailability of the Resource due to the DSP outage.  ERCOT may not reject a DGR or DESR Outage taken due to a DSP system outage, nor may ERCOT require the DSP to reschedule the outage.  However, ERCOT may consult with the DSP about rescheduling the outage.
3.1.7	Reliability Resource Outages
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate requests for approval of an Outage of a Reliability Resource to determine if any one or a combination of proposed Outages may cause ERCOT to violate applicable reliability standards or exceed the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity.  ERCOT’s evaluations shall take into consideration factors including the following: 
(a)	Load forecast;
(b)	All other known Outages; and
(c)	Potential for the proposed Outages to cause irresolvable transmission overloads or voltage supply concerns based on the indications from contingency analysis software.
3.1.7.1	Timelines for Response by ERCOT on Reliability Resource Outages
(1)	ERCOT shall approve requests for Planned Outages of Reliability Resources unless, in ERCOT’s determination, the requested Planned Outage would cause ERCOT to violate applicable reliability standards or exceed the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity.  ERCOT shall approve or reject each request in accordance with the following table:
Amount of time between a Request for approval of a proposed Planned Outage and the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage:	ERCOT shall approve or reject no later than:
No less than 30 days	Five Business Days after submission
Greater than 45 days	Five Business Days after submission
(2)	ERCOT shall approve requests for Outages, other than Forced Outages or Level I Maintenance Outages, of Reliability Resources unless, in ERCOT’s determination, the requested Outage would cause ERCOT to violate applicable reliability standards or exceed the Maximum Daily Resource Planned Outage Capacity.  ERCOT shall approve or reject Maintenance Outages on Reliability Resources as follows:
Amount of time between a Request for approval of a proposed Outage and the scheduled start date of the proposed Outage:	ERCOT shall approve or reject no later than:
Between three and eight days	0000 hours, two days before the start of the proposed Outage
Between nine and 30 days	
	Four days before the start of the proposed Outage
(3)	ERCOT shall not be deemed to have approved the Outage request associated with the Planned Outage until ERCOT notifies the Single Point of Contact of its approval.  ERCOT shall transmit approvals electronically.
(4)	ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may relax the submission timing requirements in this Section.
3.1.7.2	Changes to an Approved Reliability Resource Outage Plan
(1)	Once ERCOT has approved a Reliability Resource Planned Outage, the Resource Entity for the Reliability Resource may submit to ERCOT a change request by entering the change in the Outage Scheduler no later than 30 days before the scheduled start date of the approved Outage.  ERCOT shall approve or reject the proposed change within 15 days of receiving the change request form.  ERCOT may, at its discretion, relax the 30 day Notice requirement.
3.1.8	High Impact Transmission Element (HITE) Identification 
(1)	ERCOT, with input from Market Participants, shall develop a list of HITEs for review and approval at least annually by the TAC.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT, with input from Market Participants, shall develop a list of HITEs.  ERCOT, with input from Market Participants, shall develop a list of major transmission elements for review and approval at least annually by the TAC.
3.2 	Analysis of Resource Adequacy
3.2.1	Calculation of Aggregate Resource Capacity
(1)	ERCOT shall use Outages in the Outage Scheduler and, when applicable, the Resource Status from the Current Operating Plan (COP) to calculate the aggregate capacity from Generation Resources and Load Resources projected to be available in the ERCOT Region and in Forecast Zones in ERCOT.  “Forecast Zones” have the same boundaries as the 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zones (CMZs).  Each Resource will be mapped to a Forecast Zone during the registration process.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1029:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall use Outages in the Outage Scheduler and, when applicable, the Resource Status from the Current Operating Plan (COP) to calculate the aggregate capacity from Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), and Load Resources projected to be available in the ERCOT Region and in Forecast Zones in ERCOT.  “Forecast Zones” have the same boundaries as the 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zones (CMZs).  Each Resource will be mapped to a Forecast Zone during the registration process.
(2)	On a rolling hourly basis, ERCOT shall calculate the aggregate hourly Generation Resource capacity and Load Resource capacity in the ERCOT Region and Forecast Zones projected to be available during each hour for the following seven days.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1029:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	On a rolling hourly basis, ERCOT shall calculate the aggregate hourly Generation Resource capacity, ESR capacity, and Load Resource capacity in the ERCOT Region and Forecast Zones projected to be available during each hour for the following seven days.
(3)	Projections of Generation Resource capacity from Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) shall be consistent with capacity availability estimates, such as the effective Load carrying capability of wind, developed jointly between ERCOT and the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee and approved by the ERCOT Board or typical production expectations consistent with expected wind profiles as appropriate for the scenario being studied.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	Projections of generation capacity from Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) and the intermittent renewable generation components of DC-Coupled Resources shall be consistent with capacity availability estimates, such as the effective Load carrying capability of wind, developed jointly between ERCOT and the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee and approved by the ERCOT Board or typical production expectations consistent with expected wind profiles as appropriate for the scenario being studied.
(4)	ERCOT shall publish procedures describing the IRR forecasting process on the ERCOT website.  
3.2.2	Demand Forecasts
(1)	Monthly, ERCOT shall develop the weekly peak hour Demand forecast for the ERCOT Region and for the Forecast Zones based on the 36-Month Load Forecast as described in Section 3.12, Load Forecasting, for the following 36 months, starting with the second week.  During the development of this forecast, ERCOT may consult with Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs), Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), and other Market Participants that may have knowledge of potential Load growth.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	Monthly, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the weekly peak hour Demand forecast for the ERCOT Region and for the Forecast Zones based on the 36-Month Load Forecast as described in Section 3.12, Load Forecasting, for the following 36 months, starting with the second week.  During the development of this forecast, ERCOT may consult with Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs), Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), and other Market Participants that may have knowledge of potential Load growth.
(2)	ERCOT may, at its discretion, publish on the MIS Secure Area, additional peak Demand analyses for periods beyond 36 months.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT may, at its discretion, publish on the ERCOT website, additional peak Demand analyses for periods beyond 36 months.
(3)	ERCOT shall develop and publish hourly on the ERCOT website, peak Demand forecasts by Forecast Zone for each hour of the next seven days using the Seven-Day Load Forecast as described in Section 3.12.  
(4)	For purposes of Demand forecasting, ERCOT may choose to use the same forecast as that used for the Load forecast.
(5)	ERCOT shall publish procedures describing the forecasting process on the ERCOT website.
3.2.3	Short-Term System Adequacy Reports
(1)	ERCOT shall generate and post short-term adequacy reports on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT shall update these reports hourly following updates to the Seven-Day Load Forecast, except where noted otherwise.  The short-term adequacy reports will provide:
(a)	For Generation Resources, the available On-Line Resource capacity for each hour, aggregated by Forecast Zone, using the COP for the first seven days and considering Resources with a COP Resource Status listed in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria;
(b)	The total system-wide capacity of Resource Outages as reflected in the Outage Scheduler that are accepted or approved.  The Resource Outage capacity amount shall be based from each Resource’s current Seasonal High Sustained Limit (HSL) and posted each hour for the top of each Operating Hour for the next 168 hours.  This posted information will exclude specific Resource information and Outages related to Mothballed or Decommissioned Generation Resources, and will be aggregated on a Forecast Zone basis in three categories:
(i)	IRRs with an Outage Scheduler nature of work other than “New Equipment Energization”; 
(ii)	Other Resources with an Outage Scheduler nature of work other than “New Equipment Energization”; and
(iii)	Resources with an Outage Scheduler nature of work “New Equipment Energization”;
(c)	For Load Resources, the available capacity for each hour aggregated by Forecast Zone, using the COP for the first seven days and considering Resources with a COP Resource Status of ONRGL, ONCLR, or ONRL;
(d)	Forecast Demand for each hour described in Section 3.2.2, Demand Forecasts;
(e)	For Generation Resources, the available Off-Line Resource capacity that can be started for each hour, aggregated by Forecast Zone, using the COP for the first seven days and considering Resources with a COP Resource Status of OFF or OFFNS and temporal constraints;
(f)	Following each Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC), the available On-Line capacity from Generation Resources, aggregated by Forecast Zone, based on Real-Time telemetry, for which the COP Resource Status is OFF, OUT, or EMR for all hours within the HRUC Study Period.  The available On-Line capacity will consider those Resources with a Real-Time Resource Status listed in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1 excluding SHUTDOWN;
(g)	The available capacity for each hour for the next seven days.  For day one, and for day two following the execution of the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) on day one, the available capacity will be the sum of the values calculated in paragraphs (a) and (e) above, except that for IRRs the forecasted output will be used instead of COP values, and Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports will be subtracted.  For the remaining hours of the seven days, the available capacity will be calculated as the sum of the Seasonal HSLs for non-IRR Generation Resources including seasonal Private Use Network capacity and the forecasted output for IRRs minus the total capacity of accepted or approved Resource Outages;
(h)	The available capacity for reserves for each hour, which will be the available capacity calculated in paragraph (g) above minus the forecasted Demand for that hour; and
(i)	For each DC Tie, the sum of any ERCOT-approved DC Tie Schedules for each 15-minute interval for the first seven days.  The sum shall be displayed as an absolute value and classified as a net import or net export. 
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1029:  Replace applicable portions of Section 3.2.3 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1029; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007:]
3.2.3	Short-Term System Adequacy Reports
(1)	ERCOT shall generate and post short-term adequacy reports on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT shall update these reports hourly following updates to the Seven-Day Load Forecast, except where noted otherwise.  The short-term adequacy reports will provide:
(a)	For Generation Resources, the available On-Line Resource capacity for each hour, aggregated by Forecast Zone, using the COP for the first seven days and considering Resources with a COP Resource Status listed in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria;
(b)	The total system-wide capacity of Resource Outages as reflected in the Outage Scheduler that are accepted or approved.  The Resource Outage capacity amount shall be based from each Resource’s current Seasonal High Sustained Limit (HSL) and posted each hour for the top of each Operating Hour for the next 168 hours.  This posted information will exclude specific Resource information and Outages related to Mothballed or Decommissioned Generation Resources, and will be aggregated on a Forecast Zone basis in three categories:
(i)	IRRs and the intermittent renewable generation component of each DC-Coupled Resource with an Outage Scheduler nature of work other than “New Equipment Energization”; 
(ii)	Other Resources with an Outage Scheduler nature of work other than “New Equipment Energization”; and
(iii)	Resources with an Outage Scheduler nature of work “New Equipment Energization”;
(c)	For Load Resources, the available capacity for each hour aggregated by Forecast Zone, using the COP for the first seven days and considering Resources with a COP Resource Status of ONL;
(d)	The total capability of Resources available to provide the following Ancillary Service combinations, using COPs submitted by QSEs for the first seven days and capped by the COP limits for individual Resources.  A Resource’s capability shall only be included in the sums below if the Resource Status allows the Resource to provide at least one of the Ancillary Services within the sum:
(i)	Capacity to provide Reg-Up, irrespective of whether it is capable of providing any other Ancillary Service;
(ii)	Capacity to provide RRS, irrespective of whether it is capable of providing any other Ancillary Service;
(iii)	Capacity to provide ECRS, irrespective of whether it is capable of providing any other Ancillary Service;
(iv)	Capacity to provide Non-Spin, irrespective of whether it is capable of providing any other Ancillary Service;
(v)	Capacity to provide Reg-Up, RRS, or both, irrespective of whether it is capable of providing ECRS or Non-Spin;
(vi)	Capacity to provide Reg-Up, RRS, ECRS, or any combination, irrespective of whether it is capable of providing Non-Spin;
(vii)	Capacity to provide Reg-Up, RRS, ECRS, Non-Spin, or any combination; and
(viii)	Capacity to provide Reg-Down;
(e)	Forecast Demand for each hour described in Section 3.2.2, Demand Forecasts;
(f)	For Generation Resources, the available Off-Line Resource capacity that can be started for each hour, aggregated by Forecast Zone, using the COP for the first seven days and considering Resources with a COP Resource Status of OFF and temporal constraints; 
(g)	Following each Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC), the available On-Line capacity from Generation Resources, aggregated by Forecast Zone, based on Real-Time telemetry, for which the COP Resource Status is OFF, OUT, or EMR for all hours within the HRUC Study Period.  The available On-Line capacity will consider those Resources with a Real-Time Resource Status listed in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1 excluding SHUTDOWN; 
(h)	For each Direct Current Tie (DC Tie), the sum of any ERCOT-approved DC Tie Schedules for each 15-minute interval for the first seven days.  The sum shall be displayed as an absolute value and classified as a net import or net export; 
(i)	The available capacity for each hour for the next seven days.  For day one, and for day two following the execution of the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) on day one, the available capacity will be the sum of the values calculated in paragraphs (a) and (f) above, except that for IRRs the forecasted output will be used instead of COP values, and DC Tie exports will be subtracted.  For the remaining hours of the seven days, the available capacity will be calculated as the sum of the Seasonal HSLs for non-IRR Generation Resources including seasonal Private Use Network capacity and the forecasted output for IRRs minus the total capacity of accepted or approved Resource Outages; and
(j)	The available capacity for reserves for each hour, which will be the available capacity calculated in paragraph (i) above minus the forecasted Demand for that hour.  
3.2.4	[RESERVED]
3.2.5	Publication of Resource and Load Information
(1)	Two days after the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for the ERCOT System and, if applicable, for each Disclosure Area, the information derived from the first complete execution of Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) in each 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The Disclosure Area is the 2003 ERCOT CMZs.  Posting requirements will be applicable to Generation Resources and Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) physically located in the defined Disclosure Area.  This information shall not be posted if the posting of the information would reveal any individual Market Participant’s Protected Information.  The information posted by ERCOT shall include:
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(1)	Two days after the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for the ERCOT System and, if applicable, for each Disclosure Area, the information derived from each execution of SCED.  The Disclosure Area is the 2003 ERCOT CMZs.  Posting requirements will be applicable to Generation Resources, ESRs, and Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) physically located in the defined Disclosure Area.  This information shall not be posted if the posting of the information would reveal any individual Market Participant’s Protected Information.  The information posted by ERCOT shall include:
(a)	An aggregate energy supply curve based on non-IRR Generation Resources with Energy Offer Curves that are available to SCED.  The energy supply curves will be calculated beginning at the sum of the Low Sustained Limits (LSLs) and ending at the sum of the HSLs for non-IRR Generation Resources with Energy Offer Curves, with the dispatch for each Generation Resource constrained between the Generation Resource’s LSL and HSL.  The result will represent the ERCOT System energy supply curve economic dispatch of the non-IRR Generation Resources with Energy Offer Curves at various pricing points, not taking into consideration any physical limitations of the ERCOT System; 
(b)	An aggregate energy supply curve based on Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) with Energy Offer Curves that are available to SCED.  The energy supply curves will be calculated beginning at the sum of the LSLs and ending at the sum of the HSLs for WGRs with Energy Offer Curves, with the dispatch for each WGR constrained between the WGR’s LSL and HSL.  The result will represent the ERCOT System energy supply curve economic dispatch of the WGRs with Energy Offer Curves at various pricing points, not taking into consideration any physical limitations of the ERCOT System;
(c)	An aggregate energy supply curve based on PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) with Energy Offer Curves that are available to SCED.  The energy supply curves will be calculated beginning at the sum of the LSLs and ending at the sum of the HSLs for PVGRs with Energy Offer Curves, with the dispatch for each PVGR constrained between the PVGR’s LSL and HSL.  The result will represent the ERCOT System energy supply curve economic dispatch of the PVGRs with Energy Offer Curves at various pricing points, not taking into consideration any physical limitations of the ERCOT System;
[NPRR1014:  Insert paragraph (d) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:] 
(d)	An aggregated energy supply and demand curve based on Energy Bid/Offer Curves that are available to SCED.  The curves will be calculated beginning at the sum of the LSLs and ending at the sum of the HSLs for the Energy Bid/Offer Curves, with the dispatch for each Resource constrained between the Resource’s LSL and HSL.  The result will represent the ERCOT System energy supply and demand curve economic dispatch of the ESRs with Energy Bid/Offer Curves at various pricing points, not taking into consideration any physical limitations of the ERCOT System;
(d)	The sum of LSLs, sum of Output Schedules, and sum of HSLs for Generation Resources without Energy Offer Curves;
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (d) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(e)	The sum of LSLs, sum of Output Schedules, and sum of HSLs for Generation Resources without Energy Offer Curves and ESRs without Energy Bid/Offer Curves;
(e)	The sum of the Base Points, High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) and Low Ancillary Service Limit (LASL) of non-IRR Generation Resources with Energy Offer Curves, sum of the Base Points, HASL and LASL of WGRs with Energy Offer Curves, sum of the Base Points, HASL and LASL of PVGRs with Energy Offer Curves, and the sum of the Base Points, HASL and LASL of all remaining Generation Resources dispatched in SCED; 
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(f)	The sum of the Base Points of non-IRR Generation Resources with Energy Offer Curves, sum of the Base Points of WGRs with Energy Offer Curves, sum of the Base Points of PVGRs with Energy Offer Curves, sum of the Base Points of ESRs with Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and the sum of the Base Points of all remaining Resources dispatched in SCED;
(f)	The sum of the telemetered Generation Resource net output used in SCED; and
(g)	An aggregate energy Demand curve based on the Real-Time Market (RTM) Energy Bid curves available to SCED.  The energy Demand curve will be calculated beginning at the sum of the Low Power Consumptions (LPCs) and ending at the sum of the Maximum Power Consumptions (MPCs) for CLRs with RTM Energy Bids, with the dispatch for each Controllable Load Resource constrained between the CLR’s LPC and MPC.  The result will represent the ERCOT System Demand response capability available to SCED of the CLRs with RTM Energy Bids at various pricing points, not taking into consideration any physical limitations of the ERCOT System.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (g) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(h)	An aggregate energy Demand curve based on the Energy Bid Curves available to SCED.  The energy Demand curve will be calculated beginning at the sum of the Low Power Consumptions (LPCs) and ending at the sum of the Maximum Power Consumptions (MPCs), with the dispatch for each CLR constrained between the CLR’s LPC and MPC.  The result will represent the ERCOT System Demand response capability available to SCED of the CLRs with Energy Bid Curves at various pricing points, not taking into consideration any physical limitations of the ERCOT System;

[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1245:  Insert applicable portions of paragraphs (i)-(k) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007 and NPRR1245; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(i)	The aggregate Ancillary Service Offers (prices and quantities) in the RTM for each type of Ancillary Service regardless of a Resource’s On-Line or Off-Line status.  For RRS, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated offers from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response, Fast Frequency Response (FFR), and Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.  For ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), ERCOT shall separately post aggregated offers from Resources that are SCED-dispatchable and those that are manually dispatched.  Linked Ancillary Service Offers will be included as non-linked Ancillary Service Offers;
(j)	The sum of the Base Points of ESRs in discharge mode; and
(k)	The sum of the Base Points of ESRs in charge mode.
(2)	Two days after the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for the ERCOT System the following information derived from the first complete execution of SCED in each 15-minute Settlement Interval:
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(2)	Two days after the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for the ERCOT System the following information derived from each execution of SCED:
(a)	Each telemetered Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) Load, and the telemetered DSR net output(s) associated with each DSR Load; and
[NPRR1000:  Delete paragraph (a) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(b)	The actual ERCOT Load as determined by subtracting the DC Tie Resource actual telemetry from the sum of the telemetered Generation Resource net output as used in SCED.
(3)	Two days after the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the following information for the ERCOT System and, if applicable, for each Disclosure Area from the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) for each hourly Settlement Interval:
(a)	An aggregate energy supply curve based on all energy offers that are available to the DAM, not taking into consideration Resource Startup Offer or Minimum-Energy Offer or any physical limitations of the ERCOT System.  The result will represent the energy supply curve at various pricing points for energy offers available in the DAM;
(b)	Aggregate minimum energy supply curves based on all Minimum-Energy Offers that are available to the DAM;
(c)	An aggregate energy Demand curve based on the DAM Energy Bid curves available to the DAM, not taking into consideration any physical limitations of the ERCOT System;
(d)	The aggregate amount of cleared energy bids and offers including cleared Minimum-Energy Offer quantities;
(e)	The aggregate Ancillary Service Offers (prices and quantities) in the DAM, for each type of Ancillary Service regardless of a Resource’s On-Line or Off-Line status.  For Responsive Reserve (RRS), ERCOT shall separately post aggregated offers from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response, Fast Frequency Response (FFR), and Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.  For ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), ERCOT shall separately post aggregated offers from Resources that are SCED-dispatchable and those that are manually dispatched.  Linked Ancillary Service Offers will be included as non-linked Ancillary Service Offers;
(f)	The aggregate Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity, for each type of service, by hour.  For RRS, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response, FFR, and Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.  For ECRS, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities from Resources that are SCED-dispatchable and those that are manually dispatched;
(g)	The aggregate amount of cleared Ancillary Service Offers.  For RRS, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated Ancillary Service Offers from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response, FFR, and Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.  For ECRS, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated Ancillary Service Offers from Resources that are SCED-dispatchable and those that are manually dispatched; and
(h)	The aggregate Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bids (not-to-exceed price and quantities) for the ERCOT System and the aggregate PTP Obligation bids that sink in the Disclosure Area for each Disclosure Area.
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, NPRR1188, and NPRR1245:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1188; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007 and NPRR1245:]
(3)	Two days after the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the following information for the ERCOT System and, if applicable, for each Disclosure Area from the DAM for each hourly Settlement Interval:
(a)	An aggregate energy supply curve based on all energy offers that are available to the DAM, including the offer portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves submitted for ESRs, not taking into consideration Resource Startup Offer or Minimum-Energy Offer or any physical limitations of the ERCOT System.  The result will represent the energy supply curve at various pricing points for energy offers available in the DAM;
(b)	Aggregate minimum energy supply curves based on all Minimum-Energy Offers that are available to the DAM;
(c)	An aggregate energy Demand curve based on the DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves from CLRs and including the bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves available to the DAM, not taking into consideration any physical limitations of the ERCOT System;
(d)	The aggregate amount of cleared energy bids and offers including cleared Minimum-Energy Offer quantities;
(e)	The aggregate Ancillary Service Offers (prices and quantities) in the DAM for each type of Ancillary Service regardless of a Resource’s On-Line or Off-Line status and including Ancillary Service Only Offers.  For RRS, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated offers from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response (including Ancillary Service Only Offers), FFR, and Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.  For ECRS and Non-Spin, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated offers from Resources that are SCED-dispatchable (including Ancillary Service Only Offers) and those that are manually dispatched.  Linked Ancillary Service Offers will be included as non-linked Ancillary Service Offers;
(f)	The aggregate Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity for each type of service by hour.  For RRS, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response, FFR, and Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.  For ECRS and Non-Spin, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities from Resources that are SCED-dispatchable and those that are manually dispatched;
(g)	The aggregate amount of cleared Resource-specific Ancillary Service Offers and Ancillary Service Only Offers.  For RRS, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated Ancillary Service Offers from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response (including Ancillary Service Only Offers), FFR, and Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.  For ECRS and Non-Spin, ERCOT shall separately post aggregated Ancillary Service Offers from Resources that are SCED-dispatchable (including Ancillary Service Only Offers) and those that are manually dispatched; and
(h)	The aggregate Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bids (not-to-exceed price and quantities) for the ERCOT System and the aggregate PTP Obligation bids that sink in the Disclosure Area for each Disclosure Area.
(4)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the following information for each Resource for each 15-minute Settlement Interval 60 days prior to the current Operating Day:
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(4)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the following information for each Resource for each execution of SCED 60 days prior to the current Operating Day:
(a)	The Generation Resource name and the Generation Resource’s Energy Offer Curve (prices and quantities):
(i)	As submitted;
(ii)	As submitted and extended (or truncated) with proxy Energy Offer Curve logic by ERCOT to fit to the operational HSL and LSL values that are available for dispatch by SCED; and
(iii)	As mitigated and extended for use in SCED, including the Incremental and Decremental Energy Offer Curves for DSRs;
[NPRR1000:  Replace paragraph (iii) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(iii)	As mitigated and extended for use in SCED;

[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (b) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly:]
(b) 	The Resource name and the Resource’s Ancillary Service Offer Curve (prices and quantities) for each type of Ancillary Service:
(i)	As submitted; and
(ii)	As submitted and extended with proxy Ancillary Service Offer Curve logic by ERCOT.
(b)	The Load Resource name and the Load Resource’s bid to buy (prices and quantities);
[NPRR1188:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	The Load Resource name and the Load Resource’s Energy Bid Curve (prices and quantities);
(c)	The Generation Resource name and the Generation Resource’s Output Schedule;
(d)	For a DSR, the DSR Load and associated DSR name and DSR net output;
[NPRR1000:  Delete paragraph (d) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(e)	The Generation Resource name and actual metered Generation Resource net output;
(f)	The self-arranged Ancillary Service by service for each QSE;
(g)	The following Generation Resource data using a single snapshot during the first SCED execution in each Settlement Interval: 
(i)	The Generation Resource name;
(ii)	The Generation Resource status;
(iii)	The Generation Resource HSL, LSL, HASL, LASL, High Dispatch Limit (HDL), and Low Dispatch Limit (LDL);
(iv)	The Generation Resource Base Point from SCED;
(v)	The telemetered Generation Resource net output used in SCED;
(vi)	The Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for each Ancillary Service;
(vii)	The Generation Resource Startup Cost and minimum energy cost used in the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC); and
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (g) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(h)	The following Generation Resource data using a snapshot from each execution of SCED: 
(i)	The Generation Resource name;
(ii)	The Generation Resource status;
(iii)	The Generation Resource HSL, LSL, High Dispatch Limit (HDL), and Low Dispatch Limit (LDL);
(iv)	The Generation Resource Base Point from SCED;
(v)	The telemetered Generation Resource net output used in SCED;
(vi)	The Ancillary Service Resource awards for each Ancillary Service;
(vii)	The Generation Resource Startup Cost and minimum energy cost used in the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC);
(viii) 	The telemetered Normal Ramp Rates; 
(ix) 	The telemetered Ancillary Service capabilities; and
(h)	The following Load Resource data using a single snapshot during the first SCED execution in each Settlement Interval: 
(i)	The Load Resource name;
(ii)	The Load Resource status;
(iii)	The MPC for a Load Resource;
(iv)	The LPC for a Load Resource;
(v)	The Load Resource HASL, LASL, HDL, and LDL, for a CLR that has a Resource Status of ONRGL or ONCLR for the interval snapshot;
(vi)	The Load Resource Base Point from SCED, for a CLR that has a Resource Status of ONRGL or ONCLR for the interval snapshot;
(vii)	The telemetered real power consumption; and
(viii)	The Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for each Ancillary Service. 
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1204:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (h) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007 and NPRR1204; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(i)	The following Load Resource data using a snapshot from each execution of SCED: 
(i)	The Load Resource name;
(ii)	The Load Resource status;
(iii)	The MPC for a Load Resource;
(iv)	The LPC for a Load Resource;
(v)	The Load Resource HDL and LDL, for a CLR that has a Resource Status of ONL;
(vi)	The Load Resource Base Point from SCED, for a CLR that has a Resource Status of ONL;
(vii)	The telemetered real power consumption;
(viii)	The Ancillary Service Resource awards for each Ancillary Service;
(ix)	The telemetered self-provided Ancillary Service amount for each Ancillary Service;
(x)	The telemetered Normal Ramp Rates; 
(xi) 	The telemetered Ancillary Service capabilities; and
(j)	The ESR name and the ESR’s Energy Bid/Offer Curve (prices and quantities):
(i)	As submitted; and
(ii)	As submitted and extended with proxy Energy Offer Curve logic by ERCOT to fit to the operational HSL and LSL values that are available for dispatch by SCED;
(k)	The following ESR data using a snapshot from each execution of SCED: 
(i)	The ESR name;
(ii)	The ESR status;
(iii)	The ESR HSL, LSL, High Dispatch Limit (HDL), and Low Dispatch Limit (LDL);
(iv)	The ESR Base Point from SCED;
(v)	The telemetered ESR net output used in SCED;
(vi)	The Ancillary Service Resource awards for each Ancillary Service;
(vii) 	The telemetered Normal Ramp Rates; 
(viii) 	The telemetered Ancillary Service capabilities;
(ix)	The telemetered State of Charge in MWh;
(x)	The telemetered Minimum State of Charge (MinSOC) in MWh; and
(xi)	The telemetered Maximum State of Charge (MaxSOC) in MWh.

[NPRR1007:  Insert paragraph (5) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly:]
(5)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for each Resource for each Operating Hour 60 days prior to the current Operating Day a count of the number of times for each Ancillary Service that the Resource’s Ancillary Service Offer quantity or price was updated within the Operating Period.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for each Resource for each Operating Hour 60 days prior to the current Operating Day, a count of the number of times a Resource’s Energy Offer quantity or price was updated within the Operating Hour, including any reason accompanying the update.
(5)	If any Real-Time Locational Marginal Price (LMP) exceeds 50 times the Fuel Index Price (FIP) during any 15-minute Settlement Interval for the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the portion of any Generation Resource’s as-submitted and as-mitigated and extended Energy Offer Curve that is at or above 50 times the FIP for each 15-minute Settlement Interval seven days after the applicable Operating Day. 
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(6)	If any Real-Time Locational Marginal Price (LMP) exceeds 50 times the Fuel Index Price (FIP) during any SCED interval for the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the portion of any Generation Resource’s as-submitted and as-mitigated and extended Energy Offer Curve or any ESR’s as-submitted and as-mitigated and extended Energy Bid/Offer Curve that is at or above 50 times the FIP for that SCED interval seven days after the applicable Operating Day.
(6)	If any Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC) for an Ancillary Service exceeds 50 times the FIP for any Operating Hour in a DAM or Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM) for the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the portion on any Resource’s Ancillary Service Offer that is at or above 50 times the FIP for that Ancillary Service for each Operating Hour seven days after the applicable Operating Day.
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(7)	If any Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC) for an Ancillary Service exceeds 50 times the FIP for any Operating Hour in a DAM or any SCED interval in the RTM for the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the portion on any Resource’s Ancillary Service Offer that is at or above 50 times the FIP for that Ancillary Service for that Operating Hour for the DAM or SCED interval for the RTM seven days after the applicable Operating Day.
(7)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the offer price and the name of the Entity submitting the offer for the highest-priced offer selected or Dispatched by SCED three days after the end of the applicable Operating Day.  If multiple Entities submitted the highest-priced offers selected, all Entities shall be identified on the ERCOT website.
(8)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the bid price and the name of the Entity submitting the bid for the highest-priced bid selected or Dispatched by SCED three days after the end of the applicable Operating Day.  If multiple Entities submitted the highest-priced bids selected, all Entities shall be identified on the ERCOT website.
(9)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the offer price and the name of the Entity submitting the offer for the highest-priced Ancillary Service Offer selected in the DAM for each Ancillary Service three days after the end of the applicable Operating Day.  This same report shall also include the highest-priced Ancillary Service Offer selected for any SASMs cleared for that same Operating Day.  If multiple Entities submitted the highest-priced offers selected, all Entities shall be identified on the ERCOT website.  The report shall specify whether the Ancillary Service Offer was selected in a DAM or a SASM.
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (9) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(10)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the offer price and the name of the Entity submitting the offer for the highest-priced Ancillary Service Offer selected in the DAM or RTM for each Ancillary Service three days after the end of the applicable Operating Day.  If multiple Entities submitted the highest-priced offers selected, all Entities shall be identified on the ERCOT website.  The report shall specify whether the Ancillary Service Offer was selected in a DAM or RTM.
(10)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for each Operating Day the following information for each Resource: 
(a)	The Resource name;
(b)	The name of the Resource Entity;
(c)	Except for Load Resources that are not SCED qualified, the name of the Decision Making Entity (DME) controlling the Resource, as reflected in the Managed Capacity Declaration submitted by the Resource Entity in accordance with Section 3.6.2, Decision Making Entity for a Resource; and
(d)	Flag for Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Resources.
(11)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the following information from the DAM for each hourly Settlement Interval for the applicable Operating Day 60 days prior to the current Operating Day:
(a)	The Generation Resource name and the Generation Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer (prices and quantities), including Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer, available for the DAM; 
(b)	For each Settlement Point, individual DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves available for the DAM and the name of the QSE submitting the offer; 
(c)	The Resource name and the Resource’s Ancillary Service Offers available for the DAM; 
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1014:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (d) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly:]
(d) 	The Ancillary Service Only Offer for each Ancillary Service and the name of the QSE submitting the offer;
(d)	For each Settlement Point, individual DAM Energy Bids available for the DAM and the name of the QSE submitting the bid;
(e)	For each Settlement Point, individual PTP Obligation bids available to the DAM that sink at the Settlement Point and the QSE submitting the bid;
(f)	The awards for each Ancillary Service from the DAM for each Generation Resource;
(g)	The awards for each Ancillary Service from the DAM for each Load Resource;
(h)	The award for each Three-Part Supply Offer from the DAM and the name of the QSE receiving the award;
(i)	For each Settlement Point, the award of each DAM Energy-Only Offer from the DAM and the name of the QSE receiving the award;
(j)	For each Settlement Point, the award of each DAM Energy Bid from the DAM and the name of the QSE receiving the award; and
(k)	For each Settlement Point, the award of each PTP Obligation bid from the DAM that sinks at the Settlement Point, including whether or not the PTP Obligation bid was linked to an Option, and the QSE submitting the bid.
[NPRR1188:  Insert items (l) and (m) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(l) 	The CLR name and the CLR’s Energy Bid Curve (prices and quantities) available for the DAM; and
(m)	The award for each CLR’s Energy Bid Curve from the DAM and the name of the QSE receiving the award.

[NPRR1014:  Insert items (m)-(o) below upon system implementation:]
(m)	The ESR name and the ESR’s Energy Bid/Offer Curve (prices and quantities), available for the DAM;
(n)	The awards for each Ancillary Service from the DAM for each ESR; and
(o)	The award for each Energy Bid/Offer Curve from the DAM and the name of the QSE receiving the award.
(12)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the following information from any applicable SASMs for each hourly Settlement Interval for the applicable Operating Day 60 days prior to the current Operating Day:
(a)	The Resource name and the Resource’s Ancillary Service Offers available for any applicable SASMs;
(b)	The awards for each Ancillary Service from any applicable SASMs for each Generation Resource; and
(c)	The awards for each Ancillary Service from any applicable SASMs for each Load Resource.
[NPRR1007:  Delete paragraph (12) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
3.2.5.1	Unregistered Distributed Generation Reporting Requirements for Non Opt-In Entities
(1)	This Section describes the data that shall be submitted to ERCOT for the unregistered Distributed Generation (DG) behind Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) boundary metering points.
(2)	Within ten Business Days after the end of each quarter, each NOIE shall submit to ERCOT electronically the required data described below as of the last day of the prior quarter by submitting the designated form provided on the ERCOT website.  NOIEs that have an unregistered DG capacity of more than two MW, based upon the aggregate capacity of all sites that are less than 50 kW, shall report the total of all unregistered DG MW capacity, inclusive of systems used to support self-serve Load.  All other NOIEs shall report the aggregate unregistered DG capacity of only those sites greater than or equal to 50 kW, inclusive of systems used to support self-serve Load.  NOIEs shall report their capacity by Load Zone and by primary fuel type as follows:
(a)	Solar; 
(b)	Wind; 
(c) 	Other renewable; and
(d) 	Other non-renewable.
(3)	NOIEs not reporting DG MW capacity less than 50 kW on a quarterly basis as described in paragraph (2) above shall submit to ERCOT by March 1 of each year their annual aggregate unregistered DG MW capacity, inclusive of systems used to support self-serve Load, for the preceding calendar year.  NOIEs shall report their capacity by Load Zone and by primary fuel type as follows:
(a)	Solar; 
(b)	Wind; 
(c) 	Other renewable; and
(d) 	Other non-renewable.
(4)	Each of the above reports is required to include only the capacity known to the NOIE at the time that its report is being prepared, and shall not require the NOIE to conduct new survey activities for its service territory to identify unknown unregistered DG installations.  Any NOIE may obtain a reporting exemption for the annual report required in 2020 by notifying ERCOT of the exemption claim in writing on or before March 1, 2020.
3.2.5.2	Unregistered Distributed Generation Reporting Requirements for Competitive Areas
(1)	The data for competitive areas will be compiled from the reports submitted to ERCOT as found in the Load Profiling Guide, Appendix D, Load Profiling Decision Tree, DG Tab.
3.2.5.3	Unregistered Distributed Generation Reporting Requirements for ERCOT
(1)	Within 30 days after the end of each quarter, ERCOT shall publish the unregistered DG report on the ERCOT website.  This report shall include the aggregated data compiled for NOIE and competitive areas.  This report shall include the total unregistered DG MW capacity, as provided in accordance with Section 3.2.5.1, Unregistered Distributed Generation Reporting Requirements for Non Opt-In Entities, and Section 3.2.5.2, Unregistered Distributed Generation Reporting Requirements for Competitive Areas, above, by Load Zone and by primary fuel type as follows:
(a)	Solar; 
(b)	Wind; 
(c)	Other renewable; and 
(d)	Other non-renewable. 
(2)	ERCOT shall update the appropriate TAC subcommittee on an as needed basis on the unregistered DG report.
3.2.6	Report on Capacity, Demand and Reserves in the ERCOT Region
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare and publish the Report on Capacity, Demand and Reserves in the ERCOT Region (CDR) twice per year.  ERCOT will target the posting of the preliminary CDR during the third week of each May and the final CDR during the third week of each December.  ERCOT will issue a Market Notice indicating a revised posting date if that date is anticipated to occur prior to or after the target posting week.
(2)	Load and capacity forecasts shall be reported for at least the next five years beyond the year that the CDRs are published.  Seasonal forecasts, as defined in Section 3.2.6.1, Planning Reserve Margins, shall also be prepared and published for each forecast year.
(3)	The format and other contents of this report shall be developed by ERCOT with guidance from the Wholesale Market Subcommittee (WMS) and its working group designated to periodically review the report contents.
(4)	The CDR shall provide peak Load, peak Net Load, and capacity estimates based on the methodologies in Section 3.2.6.1, Section 3.2.6.2, Effective Load Carrying Capability (ELCC) Studies, Section 3.2.6.3, Firm Peak Load and Firm Peak Net Load Estimates, and Section 3.2.6.4, Total Capacity Estimates.
3.2.6.1	Planning Reserve Margins
(1)	ERCOT shall calculate a Planning Reserve Margin (PRM) for each season of each future year reflecting Loads and resources for the forecasted peak Load hour and peak Net Load hour as follows:
PRM h, s, i	=	(TOTCAP h, s, i – FIRMPKLD h, s, i) / FIRMPKLD h, s, i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PRM h, s, i	%	Planning Reserve Margin—The Planning Reserve Margin for hour h of season s for year i.
TOTCAP h, s, i	MW	Total Capacity—Total Capacity available for hour h of season s for the year i.
FIRMPKLD h, s, i	MW	Firm Peak Load—Firm Peak Load for hour h of the season s for the year i.
h	None	The forecasted peak Load hour and peak Net Load hour.
i	None	Year.
s	None	Season.  Summer Peak Load Season, Winter Peak Load Season, Spring (March, April, May), and Fall (October and November), for year i.
3.2.6.2	Effective Load Carrying Capability (ELCC) Studies
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct an Effective Load Carrying Capability (ELCC) study every three years or as necessary based on reviews of expected resource penetration and generation technology trends using Generator Interconnection or Modification (GIM) data.  ERCOT shall provide the appropriate WMS working group with a draft ELCC report and subsequent review and comment period before finalizing the ELCC report.  The ELCC reports shall be posted to the ERCOT website.
(2)	The ELCC study shall be based on the Reliability Standard established by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).
(3)	ERCOT shall use a Monte Carlo system simulation tool for determining the ELCC values.
(4)	The ELCC study will determine average ELCCs for aggregate WGRs, PVGRs and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) by reserve risk period and applicable CDR resource regions as defined in Section 3.2.6.4, Total Capacity Estimates.  Average ELCCs for aggregate ESRs shall be based on duration categories specified in the ELCC study.
(5)	The ELCC study shall produce a range of ELCC values reflecting feasible future mixes of WGRs, PVGRs, ESRs and Load forecasts for the next five future years.  Each CDR will include the ELCCs associated with the resource mix and load forecast for the given forecast year, season, and CDR resource region (in the case of WGRs and PVGRs).
3.2.6.3	Firm Peak Load and Firm Peak Net Load Estimates
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare, at least annually, a forecast of total hourly Loads for a minimum of ten future years using an econometric forecast, taking into account econometric inputs, weather conditions, demographic data and other variables as deemed appropriate by ERCOT.  For the CDR, firm peak Load and firm peak Net Load estimates shall be determined by the following equation: 
FIRMPKLD h, s, i	=	TOTPKLD h, s, i – LRRRS h, s, i – LRECRS h, s, i – LRNSRS¬ h, s, i – ERS h, s, i – DVR s, i – CLR h, s, i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
FIRMPKLD h, s, i	MW	Firm Peak Load Estimates—The Firm Load forecasts for hour h for season s for year i.  
TOTPKLD h, s, i	MW	Total Peak Load Estimates—The Firm Load forecasts for hour h for season s for year i.
LRRRS h, s, i	MW	Load Resource providing RRS—The amount of RRS a Load Resource is providing for hour h for season s for the year i.
LRECRS h, s, i	MW	Load Resource providing ECRS—The amount of ECRS a Load Resource is providing for hour h season s for the year i.
LRNSRS h, s, i	MW	Load Resource providing Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin)—The estimated amount of Non-Spin that Load Resources are providing for hour h for season s for the year i.  
ERS h, s, i	MW	Emergency Response Service (ERS)—The estimated amount of ERS for hour h, season s, and year i.  For the first and subsequent forecast years, the seasonal and hourly forecast values are based on the most recent past procurements for the Standard Contract Term and ERS Time Periods during which the peak Load hour and peak Net Load hour are expected to occur.  The seasonal ERS Contract Terms are as follows:

Season	Contract Term
Winter	December 1 to March 31
Spring	April 1 through May 31
Summer	June 1 through September 30
Fall	October 1 through November 30

Adjustments to the ERS amounts may be applied for each forecast year based on ERCOT consideration of expected program modifications, procurement methodology changes, changes in the seasonal risk assessments, and ERS time period expenditure limits. 
DVR h, s, i	MW	Distribution Voltage Reduction—ERCOT-directed deployment of distribution voltage reduction measures for hour h of season s of the year i based on reduction estimates provided by Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs).
CLR h, s, i	MW	Amount of Controllable Load Resource—Estimated amount of Controllable Load Resources that is available for Dispatch by ERCOT during the current year i for hour h and season s, not already included in LRRRS, LRECRS, or LRNSRS.  This value does not include Wholesale Storage Load (WSL).
h	None	The forecasted peak Load hour and forecasted peak Net Load hour.
i	None	Year.
s	None	Season.  Summer Peak Load Season, Winter Peak Load Season, Spring (March, April, May), and Fall (October and November), for year i.
(2)	The CDR shall also provide the estimated annual peak Load reduction amounts reflected in the firm peak Load forecast due to energy efficiency programs procured by TDSPs pursuant to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.181, Energy Efficiency Goal, for year i.  ERCOT will also include energy efficiency and/or Demand response initiatives reported by NOIEs.
3.2.6.4	Total Capacity Estimates
(1)	Total capacity estimates will be based on generation availability at the time of the forecasted peak Load hour and peak Net Load hour for each future season and year. 
(2)	The total capacity estimates shall be determined based on the following equation:
TOTCAP h, s, i	=	INSTTHERMCAP s, i + PUNCAP p, s, i + WINDCAP p, s, i, wr + HYDROCAP p, s, i + SOLARCAP p, s, i, sr + ESRCAP p, s, i + RMRCAP s, i + DCTIECAP s + PLANDCTIECAP s + SWITCHCAP s, i + MOTHCAP s, i + PLANTHERMCAP s, i + PLANWINDCAP p, s, i, wr + PLANSOLARCAP p, s, i, sr + PLANESRCAP p, s, i – LTOUTAGE s, i – UNSWITCH s, i – RETCAPNSO s, i – RETCAPUNC s, i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
TOTCAP h, s, i	MW	Total Capacity—Estimated total capacity available during the peak Load hour and peak Net Load hour h for season s for the year i.
INSTTHERMCAP s, i	MW	Seasonal Net Max Sustainable Rating for each Thermal Generation Resource—The Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating for season s as reported in the Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) system for each thermal operating Generation Resource for the year i excluding Resources operating under RMR Agreements, Mothballed Generation Resources, and Generation Resources capable of “switching” from the ERCOT Region to a non-ERCOT Region.  For thermal generation resources classified as small generators in accordance with paragraph (3) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, Applicability, capacity is considered operational once a Model Ready Date has been assigned to the resource.
PUNCAP h, s, i	MW	Private Use Network Capacity—The forecasted generation capacity available to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, net of self-serve load, from Generation Resources and Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) in Private Use Networks for hour h, season s, and year i.  The capacity forecasts are developed as follows.  First, a base capacity forecast, determined from SCED data, is calculated as the average net generation capacity available to the ERCOT Transmission Grid during the 20 highest system-wide peak Load and peak Net Load hours for each preceding three-year period for season s and year i.  The base capacity forecast is then adjusted by adding the aggregated incremental forecasted annual changes in net generation capacity as of the start of season s for forecast year i reported for Private Use Networks pursuant to Section 10.3.2.4, Reporting of Net Generation Capacity.  This calculation is limited to Generation Resources and SOGs in Private Use Networks (1) with a Resource Commissioning Date that occurs no later than the start of the most current Season used for the calculation, and (2) that have not been permanently retired by the start of the most current Season used for the calculation. 
HYDROCAP p, s, i	MW	Hydro Unit Capacity—The average hydro Generation Resource capacity available, as determined from SCED data during the highest 20 peak Load hours for each preceding three-year period for Reserve Risk Period p, season s, and year i.  This calculation is limited to hydro Generation Resources (1) with a Resource Commissioning Date that occurs no later than the start of the most current Peak Load Season used for the calculation, and (2) that have not been permanently retired by the start of the most current Peak Load Season used for the calculation.
WINDELCC p, s, i, wr	%	Effective Load Carrying Capability for Wind—The average ELCC for all WGRs for Reserve Risk Period p, season s, year i, and region wr, expressed as a percentage.
WINDCAP p, s, i, wr	MW	Existing WGR Capacity—The amount of currently operational WGRs for Reserve Risk Period p, season s, year i, and region wr, multiplied by WINDELCC p, s, i, wr.  Capacity is considered operational if it has an ERCOT Resource Commissioning Date or ERCOT has approved, or expects to approve, the capacity for grid synchronization by the start of season s for year i.  For wind resources classified as small generators in accordance with paragraph (3) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, capacity is considered operational once a Model Ready Date has been assigned to the resource.
SOLARELCC p, s, i, sr	%	Effective Load Carrying Capability for Solar—The average ELCC for Reserve Risk Period p, season s, year i, and region sr, expressed as a percentage.
SOLARCAP p, s, i, sr	MW	Available PVGR and Small Generator Capacity—The amount of PVGR capacity that is currently operational for Reserve Risk Period p, season s, year i, and region sr, multiplied by SOLARELCC p, s, i, sr.  Capacity is considered operational if it has an ERCOT Resource Commissioning Date or ERCOT has approved, or expects to approve, the capacity for grid synchronization by the start of season s for year i.  For solar resources classified as small generators in accordance with paragraph (3) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, capacity is considered operational once a Model Ready Date has been assigned to the resource.
ESRELCC p, s, i	%	Effective Load Carrying Capability for Energy Storage Resources—The average ELCC for Reserve Risk Period p, season s, and year i, expressed as a percentage.
ESRCAP p, s, i	%	Available Energy Storage Resource Capacity—The amount of ESR capacity by Reserve Risk Period p, season s, and year i that is currently operational, multiplied by ESRELCC p, r, s, i.  Capacity is considered operational if it has an ERCOT Resource Commissioning Date or ERCOT has approved, or expects to approve, the capacity for grid synchronization by the start of season s for year i.  For ESRs classified as small generators in accordance with paragraph (3) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, capacity is considered operational once a Model Ready Date has been assigned to the resource.
RMRCAP s, i	MW	Seasonal Net Max Sustainable Rating for Generation Resource providing RMR Service—The Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating for season s as reported in the RIOO system for each Generation Resource providing RMR Service for the year i until the approved exit strategy for the RMR Resource is expected to be completed.  
DCTIEPEAKPCT s	%	Seasonal Net Import Capacity for existing DC Tie Resources as a Percent of Installed DC Tie Capacity—The average net emergency DC Tie imports for season s, divided by the total installed DC Tie capacity for season s, expressed as a percentage.  The average net emergency DC Tie imports is calculated for the SCED intervals during which ERCOT declared an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA).  This calculation is limited to the most recent Seasons in which an EEA was declared.  For the spring and fall seasons ERCOT will use the winter and summer values, respectively, if no EEA events have occurred for these seasons.  The total installed DC Tie capacity is the capacity amount at the start of the Seasons used for calculating the net DC Tie imports.
DCTIECAP s	MW	Expected Existing DC Tie Capacity Available under Emergency Conditions—DCTIEPEAKPCT s multiplied by the installed DC Tie capacity available for season s, adjusted for any known capacity transfer limitations.
PLANDCTIECAP s	MW	Expected Planned DC Tie Capacity Available under Emergency Conditions—DCTIEPEAKPCT s multiplied by the maximum peak import capacity of planned DC Tie projects included in the most recent Steady State Working Group (SSWG) base cases, for season s.  The import capacity may be adjusted to reflect known capacity transfer limitations indicated by transmission studies.
SWITCHCAP s, i	MW	Seasonal Net Max Sustainable Rating for Switchable Generation Resources—The Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating for season s as reported in the RIOO system for each Generation Resource for year i that can electrically connect (i.e., “switch”) from the ERCOT Region to another power region.
MOTHCAP s, i	MW	Seasonal Net Max Sustainable Rating for Mothballed Generation Resource—The Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating for season s as reported in the RIOO system for each Mothballed Generation Resource for year i based on the lead time and probability information furnished by the owners of Mothballed Generation Resources pursuant to Section 3.14.1.9, Generation Resource Status Updates.  If the value furnished by the owner of a Mothballed Generation Resource pursuant to Section 3.14.1.9 is greater than or equal to 75%, then use the Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating for season s as reported in the RIOO system for the Mothballed Generation Resource for year i.  If the value furnished by the owner of a Mothballed Generation Resource pursuant to Section 3.14.1.9 is less than 75%, then exclude that Resource from the Total Capacity Estimate.
PLANTHERMCAP s, i	MW	New Thermal Generating Capacity—The amount of new thermal generating capacity available by the start of season s and year i that: (a) has a Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ)-approved air permit, (b) has a federal Greenhouse Gas permit, if required, (c) has obtained water rights, contracts or groundwater supplies sufficient for the generation of electricity at the Resource, (d) has a signed Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA), or a public, financially-binding agreement between the Resource owner and TSP under which generation interconnection facilities would be constructed; or for a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or Electric Cooperative (EC), a public commitment letter to construct a new Resource, (e) a written notice from the TSP that the Interconnecting Entity (IE) has provided notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection, and (f) provided the TSP with sufficient financial security to fund the interconnection facilities.  New, Thermal generating capacity is excluded if the GIM project status in the RIOO interconnection services system is set to “Cancelled” or “Inactive” or if the Resource was previously mothballed or retired and does not have an owner that intends to operate it.  For the purposes of this section, ownership of a mothballed or retired Resource for which a new generation interconnection is sought can only be satisfied by proof of site control as described in paragraph (1)(a), (b), or (d) of Planning Guide Section 5.3.2.1, Proof of Site Control.  Thermal resources classified as small generators in accordance with paragraph (3) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1 must have an ERCOT-assigned Model Ready Date.
PLANWINDCAP p, s, i, wr		New WGR Capacity—For new WGRs, the capacity available by the start of season s, Reserve Risk Period p, year i, and region wr, multiplied by WINDELCC for season s for Reserve Risk Period p, year i, and Region wr.  New WGRs must have (1) an SGIA or other public, financially binding agreement between the Resource owner and TSP under which generation interconnection facilities would be constructed or, for a MOU or EC, a public commitment letter to construct a new WGR, (2) a written notice from the TSP that the IE has provided notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection, and (3) provided the TSP with sufficient financial security to fund the interconnection facilities.  Wind resources classified as small generators in accordance with paragraph (3) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1 must have an ERCOT-assigned Model Ready Date.
PLANSOLARCAP p, s, i, sr		New PVGR Capacity—For new PVGRs, the capacity available by the start of season s for Reserve Risk Period p, year i, and region sr, multiplied by SOLARELCC p, s, i, sr.  New PVGRs must have (1) an SGIA or other public, financially binding agreement between the Resource owner and TSP under which generation interconnection facilities would be constructed or, for a MOU or EC, a public commitment letter to construct a new WGR, (2) a written notice from the TSP that the IE has provided notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection, and (3) provided the TSP with sufficient financial security to fund the interconnection facilities.  Solar resources classified as small generators in accordance with paragraph (3) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1 must have an ERCOT-assigned Model Ready Date.
PLANESRCAP p, s, i	MW	Available Energy Storage Resource Capacity—The amount of ESR capacity that ERCOT has approved, or expects to approve, for grid synchronization by the start of season s for Reserve Risk Period p and year i, multiplied by ERSELCC p, s, i.
LTOUTAGE s, i	MW	Forced Outage Capacity Reported in a Notification of Suspension of Operations—For Generation Resources whose operation has been suspended due to a Forced Outage as reported in a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO), the sum of Seasonal net maximum sustainable ratings for season s and year i, as reported in the NSO forms.  For Inverter-Based Resources (IBRs) use WINDCAP, SOLARCAP, and ESRCAP rather than ratings reported in NSOs.
UNSWITCH s, i 	MW	Capacity of Unavailable Switchable Generation Resource—The amount of capacity reported by the owners of a switchable Generation Resource that will be unavailable to ERCOT during season s and year i pursuant to paragraph (2) of Section 16.5.4, Maintaining and Updating Resource Entity Information.
RETCAPNSO s, i	MW	Capacity Pending Retirement—The amount of capacity in season s of year i that is pending retirement based on information submitted on an NSO form (Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations) pursuant to Section 3.14.1.11, Budgeting Eligible Costs, but is under review by ERCOT pursuant to Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process, that has not otherwise been considered in any of the above defined categories.  For Generation Resources and SOGs within Private Use Networks, the retired capacity amount is deducted from PUNCAP.  
RETCAPUNC s, i	MW	Unconfirmed Planned Retirements—The capacity of Generation Resources for which a public announcement of the intent to permanently shut the unit down has been released, but a Notice of Suspension of Operations for the unit has not been received by ERCOT.  To be considered an Unconfirmed Planned Retirement, the Generation Resource must meet the following criteria: (1) a specific retirement date is cited in the announcement, or other timing information is given that indicates the unit will be unavailable as of the start of season s for year i, and (2) the announcement, with follow-up inquiry by ERCOT, does not indicate that retirement timing is highly speculative.
p	None	Reserve Risk Period.  The range of consecutive hours having the highest risk of operating reserve shortages for each season as determined by an ELCC study per Section 3.2.6.2, Effective Load Carrying Capability (ELCC) Studies.
h	None	The forecasted peak Load hour and forecasted peak Net Load hour.
i	None	Year.
s	None	Season. 
Spring (March through May)
Summer (June through September)
Fall (October through November)
Winter (December through February)
sr	None	West, Far West, and Other solar regions.  PVGRs are classified into regions based on the county that contains their Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB). 
The West region is defined as the following counties: Archer, Armstrong, Bailey, Baylor, Borden, Briscoe, Callahan, Carson, Castro, Childress, Clay, Cochran, Coke, Coleman, Collingsworth, Concho, Cottle, Crockett, Crosby, Dallam, Dawson, Deaf Smith, Dickens, Donley, Fisher, Floyd, Foard, Garza, Glasscock, Gray, Hale, Hall, Hansford, Hardeman, Hartley, Haskell, Hockley, Howard, Hutchinson, Irion, Jones, Kent, King, Knox, Lamb, Lipscomb, Lubbock, Lynn, Martin, Menard, Mitchell, Moore, Motley, Nolan, Ochiltree, Oldham, Parmer, Potter, Randall, Reagan, Roberts, Runnels, Schleicher, Scurry, Shackelford, Sherman, Sterling, Stonewall, Sutton, Swisher, Taylor, Terry, Throckmorton, Tom Green, Val Verde, Wheeler, Wichita.
The Far West region is defined as the following counties: Andrews, Brewster, Crane, Culberson, Ector, El Paso, Gaines, Hudspeth, Jeff Davis, Loving, Midland, Pecos, Presidio, Reeves, Terrell, Upton, Ward, Winkler, Yoakum. 
The Other solar region consists of all other counties in the ERCOT Region.
wr	None	Coastal, Panhandle, and Other wind regions.  WGRs are classified into regions based on the county that contains their POIB.  
The Coastal region is defined as the following counties: Aransas, Brazoria, Calhoun, Cameron, Kenedy, Kleberg, Matagorda, Nueces, Refugio, San Patricio, and Willacy.  
The Panhandle region is defined as the following counties: Armstrong, Bailey, Briscoe, Carson, Castro, Childress, Cochran, Collingsworth, Crosby, Dallam, Deaf Smith, Dickens, Donley, Floyd, Gray, Hale, Hall, Hansford, Hartley, Hemphill, Hockley, Hutchinson, Lamb, Lipscomb, Lubbock, Moore, Motley, Ochiltree, Oldham, Parmer, Potter, Randall, Roberts, Sherman, Swisher, and Wheeler.
The Other region consists of all other counties in the ERCOT Region.
3.3	Management of Changes to ERCOT Transmission Grid
(1)	Additions and changes to the ERCOT System must be coordinated with ERCOT to accurately represent the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
3.3.1	ERCOT Approval of New or Relocated Facilities
(1)	Before energizing and placing into service any new or relocated facility connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, a Transmission Service Provider (TSP), Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), or Resource Entity shall enter appropriate information in the Outage Scheduler and coordinate with, and receive written notice of approval from, ERCOT.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Before energizing and placing into service any new or relocated facility connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, a Transmission Service Provider (TSP), Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO), Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), or Resource Entity shall enter appropriate information in the Outage Scheduler and coordinate with, and receive written notice of approval from, ERCOT.
3.3.2	Types of Work Requiring ERCOT Approval 
(1)	Each TSP, QSE and Resource Entity shall coordinate with ERCOT the requirements of Section 3.10, Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry, the following types of work for any addition to, replacement of, or change to or removal from the ERCOT Transmission Grid:
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Each TSP, DCTO, QSE, and Resource Entity shall coordinate with ERCOT the requirements of Section 3.10, Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry, the following types of work for any addition to, replacement of, or change to or removal from the ERCOT Transmission Grid:
(a)	Transmission lines;
(b)	Equipment including circuit breakers, transformers, disconnects, and reactive devices;
(c)	Resource interconnections; and
(d)	Protection and control schemes, including changes to Remedial Action Plans (RAPs), Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems, Energy Management Systems (EMSs), Automatic Generation Control (AGC), Remedial Action Schemes (RASs), or Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs).
3.3.2.1	Information to Be Provided to ERCOT
(1)	The energization or removal of a Transmission Facility or Generation Resource in the Network Operations Model requires an entry into the Outage Scheduler by a TSP or Resource Entity.  For TSP requests, the TSPs shall enter such requests in the Outage Scheduler.  For Resource Entity requests, the Resource Entity shall enter such requests in the Outage Scheduler.  If any changes in system topology or telemetry are expected, then the TSP or Resource Entity shall notify ERCOT in accordance with the schedule in Section 3.3.1, ERCOT Approval of New or Relocated Facilities.  Information submitted pursuant to this subsection for Transmission Facilities within a Private Use Network shall not be publicly posted. 
[NPRR857 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities for NPRR857; and upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(1)	The energization or removal of a Transmission Facility, Generation Resource, or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) in the Network Operations Model requires an entry into the Outage Scheduler by a TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity.  For any TSP or DCTO request, the TSP or DCTO shall enter the request in the Outage Scheduler.  For any Resource Entity request, the Resource Entity shall enter the request in the Outage Scheduler.  If any changes in system topology or telemetry are expected, then the TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity shall notify ERCOT in accordance with the schedule in Section 3.3.1, ERCOT Approval of New or Relocated Facilities.  Information submitted pursuant to this subsection for Transmission Facilities within a Private Use Network shall not be publicly posted. 
(2)	If a Resource Entity within a Private Use Network is adding or removing a Transmission Facility at the Point of Interconnection (POI), it shall inform and determine with ERCOT whether any corresponding Network Operations Model updates are necessary.  If ERCOT and the Resource Entity determine that updates are needed, the process set forth in paragraph (1) above shall be used to incorporate the update into the Network Operations Model.  Information submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) above shall not be publicly posted. 
(3)	TSPs and Resource Entities shall submit any changes in system topology or telemetry in accordance with the Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR) process or other ERCOT-prescribed process applicable to Resource Entities and according to the requirements of Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  The submittal shall include the following: 
(a)	Proposed energize date;
(b)	TSPs or Resource Entities performing work;
(c)	TSPs or Resource Entities responsible for rating affected Transmission Element(s);
(d)	For Resource Entities, data and information required by Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity;
(e)	Station identification code;
(f)	Identification of existing Transmission Facilities involved and new Transmission Facilities (if any) being added or existing Transmission Facilities being permanently removed from service;
(g)	Ratings of existing Transmission Facilities involved and new Transmission Facilities (if any) being added;
(h)	Outages required (clearly identify each Outage if multiple Outages are required), including sequence of Outage and estimate of Outage duration;
(i)	General statement of work to be completed with intermediate progress dates and events identified;
(j)	SCADA modification work, including descriptions of the telemetry points or changes to existing telemetry, providing information on equipment being installed, changed, or monitored;
(k)	Additional data determined by ERCOT and TSPs, or Resource Entities as needed to complete the ERCOT model representation of existing Transmission Facilities involved and new Transmission Facilities (if any) being added;
(l)	Statement of completion, including:
(i)	Statement to be made at the completion of each intermediate stage of project; and
(ii)	Statement to be made at completion of total project.
(m)	Drawings, including:
(i)	Existing status;
(ii)	Each intermediate stage; and
(iii)	Proposed final configuration.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall submit any changes in system topology or telemetry in accordance with the Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR) process or other ERCOT-prescribed process applicable to Resource Entities and according to the requirements of Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  The submittal shall include the following: 
(a)	Proposed energize date;
(b)	TSPs, DCTOs, or Resource Entities performing work;
(c)	TSPs, DCTOs, or Resource Entities responsible for rating affected Transmission Element(s);
(d)	For Resource Entities, data and information required by Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity;
(e)	Station identification code;
(f)	Identification of existing Transmission Facilities involved and new Transmission Facilities (if any) being added or existing Transmission Facilities being permanently removed from service;
(g)	Ratings of existing Transmission Facilities involved and new Transmission Facilities (if any) being added;
(h)	Outages required (clearly identify each Outage if multiple Outages are required), including sequence of Outage and estimate of Outage duration;
(i)	General statement of work to be completed with intermediate progress dates and events identified;
(j)	SCADA modification work, including descriptions of the telemetry points or changes to existing telemetry, providing information on equipment being installed, changed, or monitored;
(k)	Additional data determined by ERCOT, TSPs, DCTOs, or Resource Entities as needed to complete the ERCOT model representation of existing Transmission Facilities involved and new Transmission Facilities (if any) being added;
(l)	Statement of completion, including:
(i)	Statement to be made at the completion of each intermediate stage of project; and
(ii)	Statement to be made at completion of total project.
(m)	Drawings, including:
(i)	Existing status;
(ii)	Each intermediate stage; and
(iii)	Proposed final configuration.
3.3.2.2	Record of Approved Work
(1)	ERCOT shall maintain a record of all work approved in accordance with Section 3.3, Management of Changes to ERCOT Transmission Grid, and shall publish, and update monthly, information on the MIS Secure Area regarding each new Transmission Element to be installed on the ERCOT Transmission Grid. 
3.4	Load Zones 
(1)	ERCOT shall assign every power flow bus to a Load Zone for Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Settlement purposes.  ERCOT shall calculate a Settlement Point Price for each Load Zone using the Load-weighted aggregated Shift Factors of the applicable energized power flow buses for each constraint.  The Load-weighting must be determined using the Load distribution factors.
(2)	ERCOT shall assign every Electrical Bus to a Load Zone for Real-Time Market (RTM) Settlement purposes.  ERCOT shall calculate a Settlement Point Price for each Load Zone as the Load-weighted average of the Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) at all Electrical Buses assigned to that Load Zone.  The Load-weighting must be determined using the Load, if any, from the State Estimator at each Electrical Bus.
3.4.1	Load Zone Types 
(1)	The Load Zone types are:
(a)	The Competitive Load Zones;  
(b)	The Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) Load Zones created pursuant to Section 3.4.3, NOIE Load Zones; and 
(c)	The Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load Zones as defined in Section 3.4.4, DC Tie Load Zones. 
(2)	The Competitive Load Zones are the four zones in effect during the 2003 ERCOT market unless they are changed pursuant to Section 3.4.2, Load Zone Modifications, less any Electrical Buses that are assigned to a NOIE Load Zone or a DC Tie Load Zone.
3.4.2	Load Zone Modifications
(1)	Competitive Load Zones and NOIE Load Zones may be added, deleted, or changed, only when approved by the ERCOT Board, with the exception of paragraph (1)(c) of Section 3.4.3, NOIE Load Zones.  Approved additions, deletions, or changes go into effect 48 months after the end of the month in which the addition, deletion, or change was approved, with the exception of paragraph (3) below.  DC Tie Load Zones are not subject to these requirements.
(2)       The addition of Load that is new to the ERCOT System to an existing Load Zone does not constitute a change to a Load Zone under this section.  This provision includes the transfer of existing Load from a non-ERCOT Control Area into a Load Zone in the ERCOT System.  Adding Load that is new to the ERCOT System to an existing Load Zone does not require ERCOT Board approval, and no notice period is required prior to adding such Load to an existing Load Zone.
(3)	A NOIE that was included in the establishment of an automatic pre-assigned NOIE Load Zone under paragraph (1)(c) of Section 3.4.3 may elect to be assigned to an appropriate Competitive Load Zone after giving notice of termination of its power supply arrangement if a request to be assigned to a Competitive Load Zone was given to ERCOT at least 90 days prior to the start of the Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Right (PCRR) nomination window for the effective year of the Load Zone change.  The move to a Competitive Load Zone requires ERCOT Board approval and shall be effective no sooner than the first day of the PCRR Nomination Year.  
3.4.3	NOIE Load Zones
(1)	The descriptions and conditions set forth below apply to Load Zones established by NOIEs:
(a)	There are four NOIE Load Zones that were approved prior to the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date: Austin Energy, City Public Service, Rayburn Country Electric Cooperative, and Lower Colorado River Authority (LCRA); 
(b)	Any costs allocated based upon a zonal Load Ratio Share (LRS) must be allocated using “Cost-Allocation Load Zones,” which are the four Load Zones in effect during the 2003 ERCOT market unless they are changed pursuant to Section 3.4.2, Load Zone Modifications.  For these allocation purposes, any NOIE Load Zone is considered to be located entirely within the 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zone (CMZ) that represented the largest Load for that NOIE or group of NOIEs in 2003;
(c)	A separate NOIE Load Zone is made up of a group of NOIEs that are parties to the same pre-1999 power supply arrangements and that had an overall 2003 peak Load in excess of 2,300 MW.  A NOIE that is a member of this separate NOIE Load Zone and that has given notice of termination of its pre-1999 power supply arrangement may elect to be assigned to an appropriate Competitive Load Zone.  Such an election shall be subject to the approval process in Section 3.4.2;
(d)	NOIEs may participate in only one NOIE Load Zone, and all Loads served by that NOIE must be contained within that Load Zone;
(e)	Except as specified otherwise in this subsection, Load Zones established by NOIEs will be treated the same as other Load Zones, including a 48-month notice requirement for ERCOT Board approval of any changes to Load Zones.  However, the addition of Load that is new to the ERCOT System, including the transfer of existing Load from a non-ERCOT Control Area, into an existing NOIE Load Zone is not a change to a Load Zone under these Protocols; and
(f)	Four years after a NOIE offers its Customers retail choice, the NOIE’s Load must be merged into the appropriate Competitive Load Zone(s).  For a Load Zone that is an aggregation of NOIE systems of which less than all of the NOIEs opt into Customer Choice, each remaining NOIE in that NOIE Load Zone may choose to have its Load merged into the appropriate Competitive Load Zone(s) under the same four-year time frame.
3.4.4	DC Tie Load Zones
(1)	A DC Tie Load Zone contains only the Electrical Bus in the ERCOT Transmission Grid that connects the DC Tie and is used in the settlement of the DC Tie Load in that zone.  
3.4.5	Additional Load Buses
(1)	ERCOT shall assign new Electrical Buses to a Load Zone and Cost Allocation Zone in accordance with the following rules; changes are effective immediately:
(a)	For each new Electrical Bus serving Load of a NOIE that is a part of a NOIE Load Zone, the new Electrical Bus will be assigned to that NOIE Load Zone;
(b)	For each new Electrical Bus not covered in paragraph (a) above, connected via Transmission Facilities to Electrical Buses all located within the same Competitive Load Zone, the new Electrical Bus will be assigned to that Competitive Load Zone; 
(c)	For each new Electrical Bus not covered in paragraphs (a) or (b) above, ERCOT shall simulate LMPs for the annual peak hour of the system with the new Electrical Bus incorporated into the model.  ERCOT shall assign that new Electrical Bus to the Competitive Load Zone with the closest matching zonal Settlement Point Price to the new Electrical Bus's LMP; 
(d)	For each new Electrical Bus covered in paragraph (a) above and connected via Transmission Facilities to Electrical Buses all located within the same Cost Allocation Zone, then the new Electrical Bus will be assigned to that Cost Allocation Zone;
(e)	For each new Electrical Bus covered in paragraph (a) above and not covered in paragraph (d) above, ERCOT shall simulate LMPs for the annual peak hour of the system with the new Electrical Bus incorporated into the model.  ERCOT shall assign each new Electrical Bus associated with a NOIE that is a part of a NOIE Load Zone to the Cost Allocation Zone with the closest matching zonal Settlement Point Price to the new Electrical Bus's LMP.
(f)	For each new Electrical Bus not covered in paragraph (a), the new Electrical Bus is assigned to the same Cost Allocation Zone as its designated Load Zone;   
3.5	Hubs
3.5.1	Process for Defining Hubs
(1)	Hubs settled through ERCOT may only be created by an amendment to Section 3.5.2, Hub Definitions.  Hubs are made up of one or more Electrical Buses.  ERCOT shall post the list of Electrical Buses (including their names) that are part of a Hub on the ERCOT website.  A Hub, once defined, may not be modified except as explicitly described in the definition of that Hub. 
(2)	When any Electrical Bus within a Hub Bus is added to the Network Operations Model or the Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Network Model through changes to the Network Operations Model or CRR Network Model, ERCOT shall provide notice to all Market Participants as soon as practicable and include that Electrical Bus in the Hub Bus price calculation.
(3)	When any Electrical Bus within a Hub Bus is disconnected from the Network Operations Model or the CRR Network Model through operations changes in transmission topology temporarily, ERCOT shall provide notice to all Market Participants as soon as practicable and exclude that Electrical Bus from the Hub Bus price calculation.
(4)	In the event of a permanent change that removes the Hub Bus from the ERCOT Transmission Grid, ERCOT shall file a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) to revise the appropriate Hub definition.  
(5)	If a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or ERCOT plans a nomenclature change in the Network Operations Model or the CRR Network Model, ERCOT shall file a NPRR to include the nomenclature change in the Hub Bus definitions before implementing the name change to either the Network Operations Model or the CRR Network Model.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	If a Transmission Service Provider (TSP), Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO), or ERCOT plans a nomenclature change in the Network Operations Model or the CRR Network Model, ERCOT shall file a NPRR to include the nomenclature change in the Hub Bus definitions before implementing the name change to either the Network Operations Model or the CRR Network Model.
3.5.2	Hub Definitions
3.5.2.1	North 345 kV Hub (North 345)
(1)	The North 345 kV Hub is composed of the following Hub Buses:
	ERCOT Operations	
No.	Hub Bus	kV	Hub
1	ANASW	345	NORTH
2	CN345	345	NORTH
3	WLSH	345	NORTH
4	FMRVL	345	NORTH
5	LPCCS	345	NORTH
6	MNSES	345	NORTH
7	PRSSW	345	NORTH
8	SSPSW	345	NORTH
9	VLSES	345	NORTH
10	ALNSW	345	NORTH
11	ALLNC	345	NORTH
12	BNDVS	345	NORTH
13	BNBSW	345	NORTH
14	BBSES	345	NORTH
15	BOSQUESW	345	NORTH
16	CDHSW	345	NORTH
17	CNTRY	345	NORTH
18	CRLNW	345	NORTH
19	CMNSW	345	NORTH
20	CNRSW	345	NORTH
21	CRTLD	345	NORTH
22	DCSES	345	NORTH
23	EMSES	345	NORTH
24	ELKTN	345	NORTH
25	ELMOT	345	NORTH
26	EVRSW	345	NORTH
27	KWASS	345	NORTH
28	FGRSW	345	NORTH
29	FORSW	345	NORTH
30	FRNYPP	345	NORTH
31	GIBCRK	345	NORTH
32	HKBRY	345	NORTH
33	VLYRN	345	NORTH
34	JEWET	345	NORTH
35	KNEDL	345	NORTH
36	KLNSW	345	NORTH
37	LCSES	345	NORTH
38	LIGSW	345	NORTH
39	LEG 	345	NORTH
40	LFKSW	345	NORTH
41	LWSSW	345	NORTH
42	MLSES	345	NORTH
43	MCCREE	345	NORTH
44	MDANP	345	NORTH
45	ENTPR	345	NORTH
46	NCDSE	345	NORTH
47	NORSW	345	NORTH
48	NUCOR	345	NORTH
49	PKRSW	345	NORTH
50	KMCHI	345	NORTH
51	PTENN	345	NORTH
52	RENSW	345	NORTH
53	RCHBR	345	NORTH
54	RNKSW	345	NORTH
55	RKCRK	345	NORTH
56	RYSSW	345	NORTH
57	SGVSW	345	NORTH
58	SHBSW	345	NORTH
59	SHRSW	345	NORTH
60	SCSES	345	NORTH
61	SYCRK	345	NORTH
62	THSES	345	NORTH
63	TMPSW	345	NORTH
64	TNP_ONE	345	NORTH
65	TRCNR	345	NORTH
66	TRSES	345	NORTH
67	TOKSW	345	NORTH
68	VENSW	345	NORTH
69	WLVEE	345	NORTH
70	W_DENT	345	NORTH
71	WTRML	345	NORTH
72	WCSWS	345	NORTH
73	WEBBS	345	NORTH
74	WHTNY	345	NORTH
75	WCPP	345	NORTH

(2)	The North 345 kV Hub Price uses the aggregated Shift Factors of the Hub Buses for each hour of the Settlement Interval of the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) in the Day-Ahead and is the simple average of the time-weighted Hub Bus prices for each 15-minute Settlement Interval in Real-Time, for each Hub Bus included in this Hub.
(3)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DASPP North345 =	DASL – █(Σ@c)(DAHUBSF North345, c * DASP c), 
		if HBBC North345≠0
DASPP North345 =	DASPP ERCOT345Bus, if HBBC North345=0
Where:
DAHUBSF North345, c	=	█(Σ@hb)(HUBDF hb, North345, c * DAHBSF hb, North345, c)
DAHBSF hb, North345, c	=	█(Σ@pb)(HBDF pb, hb, North345, c * DASF pb, hb, North345, c)
HUBDF hb, North345, c	=	IF(HB North345, c=0, 0, 1 / HB North345, c)
HBDF pb, hb, North345, c	=	IF(PB hb, North345, c=0, 0, 1 / PB hb, North345, c)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP North345	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point PriceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the hour.
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DAHUBSF North345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHBSF hb,North345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub BusThe DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
DASF pb,hb,North345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the power flow busThe DAM Shift Factor of a power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
HUBDF hb, North345,c	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
HBDF pb, hb, North345,c	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per power flow bus of Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
pb	none	An energized power flow bus that is a component of a Hub Bus for the constraint c.
PB hb, North345,c	none	The total number of energized power flow buses in Hub Bus hb for the constraint c.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub with at least one energized power flow bus for the constraint c.
HBBC North345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus in base case.
HB North345,c	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus for the constraint c.
c	none	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP North345	=	Max [-$251, (RTRSVPOR + RTRDP + 
		 (HUBDF hb, North345 * ( (RTHBP hb, North345, y * 
		TLMP y) / ( TLMP y))))], if HB North345≠0
RTSPP North345	=	RTSPP ERCOT345Bus, if HB North345=0
Where:
RTRSVPOR 		=	 (RNWF y * RTORPA y) 
RTRDP                       =            (RNWF y * RTORDPA y)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
RTHBP hb, North345, y	=	 (HBDF b, hb, North345 * RTLMP b, hb, North345, y)
HUBDF hb, North345	=	IF(HB North345=0, 0, 1 / HB North345)
HBDF b, hb, North345	=	IF(B hb, North345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, North345)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP North345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTHBP hb, North345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Hub Bus Price at Hub Bus per Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) intervalThe Real-Time energy price at Hub Bus hb for the SCED interval y.
RTRSVPOR	$/MWh	Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line ReservesThe Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line Reserves for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTORPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder per intervalThe Real-Time price adder for On-Line Reserves for the SCED interval y.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment PriceThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.  
RTORDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price AdderThe Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
RTLMP b, hb, North345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Locational Marginal Price at Electrical Bus of Hub Bus per intervalThe Real-Time LMP at Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb, for the SCED interval y.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval
HUBDF hb, North345	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub BusThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb.  
HBDF b, hb, North345	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per Electrical Bus of Hub BusThe distribution factor of Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb.  
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
b	none	An energized Electrical Bus that is a component of a Hub Bus.
B hb, North345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub.
HB North345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus.

[NPRR1007 and NPRR1057:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1057:]
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP North345	=	Max [-$251, (RTRDP + 
		 (HUBLMP North345, y * RNWF y))]
Where:
RTRDP                       =            (RNWF y * RTRDPA y)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP North345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for Energy The Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy.  
RTRDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy The Real-Time Price Adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
HUBLMP North345, y	$/MWh	Hub Locational Marginal PriceThe Hub LMP for the Hub for the SCED Interval y.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.

3.5.2.2	South 345 kV Hub (South 345)
(1)	The South 345 kV Hub is composed of the following Hub Buses:
	ERCOT Operations	
No.	Hub Bus	kV	Hub
1	AUSTRO	345	SOUTH
2	BLESSING	345	SOUTH
3	CAGNON	345	SOUTH
4	COLETO	345	SOUTH
5	CLEASP	345	SOUTH
6	NEDIN	345	SOUTH
7	FAYETT	345	SOUTH
8	FPPYD1	345	SOUTH
9	FPPYD2	345	SOUTH
10	GARFIE	345	SOUTH
11	GUADG	345	SOUTH
12	HAYSEN	345	SOUTH
13	HILLCTRY	345	SOUTH
14	HOLMAN	345	SOUTH
15	KENDAL	345	SOUTH
16	LA_PALMA	345	SOUTH
17	LON_HILL	345	SOUTH
18	LOSTPI	345	SOUTH
19	LYTTON_S	345	SOUTH
20	MARION	345	SOUTH
21	PAWNEE	345	SOUTH
22	RIOHONDO	345	SOUTH
23	RIONOG	345	SOUTH
24	SALEM	345	SOUTH
25	SANMIGL	345	SOUTH
26	SKYLINE	345	SOUTH
27	STP	345	SOUTH
28	CALAVERS	345	SOUTH
29	BRAUNIG	345	SOUTH
30	WHITE_PT	345	SOUTH
31	ZORN	345	SOUTH

(2)	The South 345 kV Hub Price uses the aggregated Shift Factors of the Hub Buses for each hour of the Settlement Interval of the DAM in the Day-Ahead and is the simple average of the time-weighted Hub Bus prices for each 15-minute Settlement Interval in Real-Time, for each Hub Bus included in this Hub.
(3)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DASPP South345 =	DASL – █(Σ@c)(DAHUBSF South345, c * DASP c), 
		if HBBC South345≠0
DASPP South345 =		DASPP ERCOT345Bus, if HBBC South345=0
Where:
DAHUBSF South345, c	=	█(Σ@hb)(HUBDF hb, South345, c * DAHBSF hb, South345, c)
DAHBSF hb, South345, c	=	█(Σ@pb)(HBDF pb, hb, South345, c * DASF pb, hb, South345, c)
HUBDF hb, South345, c	=	IF(HB South345, c=0, 0, 1 / HB South345, c)
HBDF pb, hb, South345, c	=	IF(PB hb, South345, c=0, 0, 1 / PB hb, South345, c)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP South345	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point PriceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the hour.
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DAHUBSF South345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHBSF hb,South345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub BusThe DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
DASF pb,hb,South345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the power flow busThe DAM Shift Factor of a power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
HUBDF hb, South345,c	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
HBDF pb, hb, South345,c	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per power flow bus of Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
pb	none	An energized power flow bus that is a component of a Hub Bus for the constraint c.
PB hb, South345,c	none	The total number of energized power flow buses in Hub Bus hb for the constraint c.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub with at least one energized power flow bus for the constraint c.
HBBC South345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus in base case.
HB South345,c	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus for the constraint c.
c	none	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP South345	=	Max [-$251, (RTRSVPOR + RTRDP +
		 (HUBDF hb, South345 * ( (RTHBP hb, South345, y * TLMP y) / ( TLMP y))))], if HB South345≠0
RTSPP South345	=	RTSPP ERCOT345Bus, if HB South345=0
Where:
RTRSVPOR 		=	 (RNWF  y * RTORPA y)
RTRDP                                =               (RNWFy  * RTORDPAy)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y 
RTHBP hb, South345, y	=	 (HBDF b, hb, South345 * RTLMP b, hb, South345, y)
HUBDF hb, South345	=	IF(HB South345=0, 0, 1 / HB South345)
HBDF b, hb, South345	=	IF(B hb, South345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, South345)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP South345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTHBP hb, South345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Hub Bus Price at Hub Bus per SCED intervalThe Real-Time energy price at Hub Bus hb for the SCED interval y.
RTRSVPOR	$/MWh	Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line ReservesThe Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line Reserves for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTORPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder per intervalThe Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder for the SCED interval y.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price-The Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.  
RTORDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder –The Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
RTLMP b, hb, South345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Locational Marginal Price at Electrical Bus of Hub Bus per intervalThe Real-Time LMP at Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb, for the SCED interval y.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
HUBDF hb, South345	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub BusThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb.  
HBDF b, hb, South345	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per Electrical Bus of Hub BusThe distribution factor of Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb.  
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
b	none	An energized Electrical Bus that is a component of a Hub Bus.
B hb, South345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub.
HB South345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus.

[NPRR1007 and NPRR1057:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1057:]
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP South345	=	Max [-$251, (RTRDP +
		 (HUBLMP South345, y * RNWF y))]
Where:
RTRDP                                =               ( RNWFy  * RTRDPAy)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP South345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for EnergyThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy.  
RTRDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy –The Real-Time Price Adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
HUBLMP South345, y	$/MWh	Hub Locational Marginal PriceThe Hub LMP for the Hub for the SCED Interval y.
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.

3.5.2.3	Houston 345 kV Hub (Houston 345)
(1)	The Houston 345 kV Hub is composed of the following listed Hub Buses:
	ERCOT Operations	
No.	Hub Bus	kV	Hub
1	ADK	345	HOUSTON
2	BI	345	HOUSTON
3	CBY	345	HOUSTON
4	CTR	345	HOUSTON
5	CHB	345	HOUSTON
6	DPW	345	HOUSTON
7	DOW	345	HOUSTON
8	RNS	345	HOUSTON
9	GBY	345	HOUSTON
10	JN	345	HOUSTON
11	KG	345	HOUSTON
12	KDL	345	HOUSTON
13	NB	345	HOUSTON
14	OB	345	HOUSTON
15	PHR	345	HOUSTON
16	SDN	345	HOUSTON
17	SMITHERS	345	HOUSTON
18	THW	345	HOUSTON
19	WAP	345	HOUSTON
20	WO	345	HOUSTON

(2)	The Houston 345 kV Hub Price uses the aggregated Shift Factors of the Hub Buses for each hour of the Settlement Interval of the DAM in the Day-Ahead and is the simple average of the time-weighted Hub Bus prices for each 15-minute Settlement Interval in Real-Time, for each Hub Bus included in this Hub.
(3)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DASPP Houston345 =	DASL – █(Σ@c)(DAHUBSF Houston345, c * DASP c), 
		if HBBC Houston345≠0
DASPP Houston345 =	DASPP ERCOT345Bus, if HBBC Houston345=0
Where:
DAHUBSF Houston345, c	=	█(Σ@hb)(HUBDF hb, Houston345, c * DAHBSF hb, Houston345, c)
DAHBSF hb, Houston345, c	=	█(Σ@pb)(HBDF pb, hb, Houston345, c * DASF pb, hb, Houston345, c)
HUBDF hb, Houston345, c	=	IF(HB Houston345, c=0, 0, 1 / HB Houston345, c)
HBDF pb, hb, Houston345, c	=	IF(PB hb, Houston345, c=0, 0, 1 / PB hb, Houston345, c)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP Houston345	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point PriceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the hour.
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DAHUBSF Houston345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHBSF hb,Houston345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub BusThe DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
DASF pb,hb,Houston345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the power flow busThe DAM Shift Factor of a power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
HUBDF hb, Houston345,c	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
HBDF pb, hb, Houston345,c	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per power flow bus of Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
pb	none	An energized power flow bus that is a component of a Hub Bus for the constraint c.
PB hb, Houston345,c	none	The total number of energized power flow buses in Hub Bus hb for the constraint c.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub with at least one energized power flow bus for the constraint c.
HBBC Houston345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus in base case.
HB Houston345,c	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus for the constraint c.
c	none	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP Houston345	   =	Max [-$251, (RTRSVPOR + RTRDP + 
		 (HUBDF hb, Houston345 * ( (RTHBP hb, Houston345, y * 
		TLMP y) / ( TLMP y))))], if HB Houston345≠0
RTSPP Houston345   =	RTSPP ERCOT345Bus, if HB Houston345=0
Where:
RTRSVPOR 		=	 (RNWF y * RTORPA y)
RTRDP                       		=            (RNWF y * RTORDPA y)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
RTHBP hb, Houston345, y	=	 (HBDF b, hb, Houston345 * RTLMP b, hb, Houston345, y)
HUBDF hb, Houston345	=	IF(HB Houston345=0, 0, 1 / HB Houston345)
HBDF b, hb, Houston345	=	IF(B hb, Houston345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, Houston345)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP Houston345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTHBP hb, Houston345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Hub Bus Price at Hub Bus per SCED intervalThe Real-Time energy price at Hub Bus hb for the SCED interval y.
RTRSVPOR	$/MWh	Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line ReservesThe Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line Reserves for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTORPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder per intervalThe Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder for the SCED interval y.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment PriceThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.  
RTORDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price AdderThe Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
RTLMP b, hb, Houston345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Locational Marginal Price at Electrical Bus of Hub Bus per intervalThe Real-Time LMP at Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb, for the SCED interval y.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval
HUBDF hb, Houston345	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub BusThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb.  
HBDF b, hb, Houston345	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per Electrical Bus of Hub BusThe distribution factor of Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb.  
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
b	none	An energized Electrical Bus that is a component of a Hub Bus.
B hb, Houston345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub.
HB Houston345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus.

[NPRR1007 and NPRR1057:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1057:]
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP Houston345	   =	Max [-$251, (RTRDP + 
		 (HUBLMP Houston345, y * RNWF y ))]
Where:
RTRDP                       		=            (RNWF y * RTRDPA y)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP Houston345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for Energy The Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy.  
RTRDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy The Real-Time Price Adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
HUBLMP Houston345, y	$/MWh	Hub Locational Marginal PriceThe Hub LMP for the Hub for the SCED Interval y.
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.

3.5.2.4	West 345 kV Hub (West 345)
(1)	The West 345 kV Hub is composed of the following listed Hub Buses:
	ERCOT Operations	
No.	Hub Bus	kV	Hub
1	MULBERRY	345	WEST
2	BOMSW	345	WEST
3	OECCS	345	WEST
4	BITTCR	345	WEST
5	FSHSW	345	WEST
6	FLCNS	345	WEST
7	GRSES	345	WEST
8	JCKSW	345	WEST
9	MDLNE	345	WEST
10	MOSSW	345	WEST
11	MGSES	345	WEST
12	DCTM	345	WEST
13	ODEHV	345	WEST
14	OKLA	345	WEST
15	REDCREEK	345	WEST
16	SWESW	345	WEST
17	TWINBU	345	WEST
(2)	The West 345 kV Hub Price uses the aggregated Shift Factors of the Hub Buses for each hour of the Settlement Interval of the DAM in the Day-Ahead and is the simple average of the time weighted Hub Bus prices for each 15-minute Settlement Interval in Real-Time, for each Hub Bus included in this Hub.
(3)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DASPP West345 =		DASL – █(Σ@c)(DAHUBSF West345, c * DASP c), 
		if HBBC West345≠0
DASPP West345 =		DASPP ERCOT345Bus, if HBBC West345=0
Where:
DAHUBSF West345, c	=	█(Σ@hb)(HUBDF hb, West345, c * DAHBSF hb, West345, c)
DAHBSF hb, West345, c	=	█(Σ@pb)(HBDF pb, hb, West345, c * DASF pb, hb, West345, c)
HUBDF hb, West345, c	=	IF(HB West345, c=0, 0, 1 / HB West345, c)
HBDF pb, hb, West345, c	=	IF(PB hb, West345, c=0, 0, 1 / PB hb, West345, c)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP West345	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point PriceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the hour.
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DAHUBSF West345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHBSF hb,West345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub BusThe DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
DASF pb,hb,West345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the power flow busThe DAM Shift Factor of a power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
HUBDF hb, West345,c	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
HBDF pb, hb, West345,c	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per power flow bus of Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
pb	none	An energized power flow bus that is a component of a Hub Bus for the constraint c.
PB hb, West345,c	none	The total number of energized power flow buses in Hub Bus hb for the constraint c.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub with at least one energized power flow bus for the constraint c.
HBBC West345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus in base case.
HB West345,c	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus for the constraint c.
c	none	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
 (4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP West345	=	Max [-$251, (RTRSVPOR + RTRDP + 
		 (HUBDF hb, West345 * ( (RTHBP hb, West345, y * TLMP y) / ( TLMP y))))], if HB West345≠0
RTSPP West345	=	RTSPP ERCOT345Bus, if HB West345=0
Where:
RTRSVPOR 		=	 (RNWF y * RTORPA y)
RTRDP                      		=            (RNWF y * RTORDPA y)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
RTHBP hb, West345, y	=	 (HBDF b, hb, West345 * RTLMP b, hb, West345, y)
HUBDF hb, West345	=	IF(HB West345=0, 0, 1 / HB West345)
HBDF b, hb, West345	=	IF(B hb, West345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, West345)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP West345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRSVPOR	$/MWh	Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line ReservesThe Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line Reserves for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTORPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder per intervalThe Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder for the SCED interval y.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment PriceThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.  
RTORDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price AdderThe Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
RTHBP hb, West345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Hub Bus Price at Hub Bus per SCED intervalThe Real-Time energy price at Hub Bus hb for the SCED interval y.
RTLMP b, hb, West345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Locational Marginal Price at Electrical Bus of Hub Bus per intervalThe Real-Time LMP at Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb, for the SCED interval y.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
HUBDF hb, West345	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub BusThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb.  
HBDF b, hb, West345	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per Electrical Bus of Hub BusThe distribution factor of Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb.  
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
b	none	An energized Electrical Bus that is a component of a Hub Bus.
B hb, West345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub.
HB West345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus.

[NPRR1007 and NPRR1057:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation of NPRR1057:]
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP West345	=	Max [-$251, (RTRDP + 
		 (HUBLMP West345, y * RNWF y))]
Where:
RTRDP                      		=            (RNWF y * RTRDPA y)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP West345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for EnergyThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy.  
RTRDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for EnergyThe Real-Time Price Adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
HUBLMP West345, y	$/MWh	Hub Locational Marginal PriceThe Hub LMP for the Hub for the SCED Interval y.
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.

3.5.2.5	Panhandle 345 kV Hub (Pan 345)
(1)	The Panhandle 345 kV Hub is composed of the following listed Hub Buses:
	ERCOT Operations	
No.	Hub Bus	kV	Hub
1	ABERNATH	345	PAN
2	AJ_SWOPE	345	PAN
3	ALIBATES	345	PAN
4	CTT_CROS	345	PAN
5	CTT_GRAY	345	PAN
6	OGALLALA	345	PAN
7	RAILHEAD	345	PAN
8	TESLA	345	PAN
9	TULECNYN	345	PAN
10	W_CW_345	345	PAN
11	WHIT_RVR	345	PAN
12	WINDMILL	345	PAN
(2)	The Panhandle 345 kV Hub Price uses the aggregated Shift Factors of the Hub Buses for each hour of the Settlement Interval of the DAM in the Day-Ahead and is the simple average of the time weighted Hub Bus prices for each 15-minute Settlement Interval in Real-Time, for each Hub Bus included in this Hub.
(3)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DASPP Pan345 =		DASL – █(Σ@c)(DAHUBSF Pan345, c * DASP c), 
		if HBBC Pan345≠0
DASPP Pan345 =		DASPP ERCOT345Bus, if HBBC Pan345=0
Where:
DAHUBSF Pan345, c	=	█(Σ@hb)(HUBDF hb, Pan345, c * DAHBSF hb, Pan345, c)
DAHBSF hb, Pan345, c	=	█(Σ@pb)(HBDF pb, hb, Pan345, c * DASF pb, hb, Pan345, c)
HUBDF hb, Pan345, c	=	IF(HB Pan345, c=0, 0, 1 / HB Pan345, c)
HBDF pb, hb, Pan345, c	=	IF(PB hb, Pan345, c=0, 0, 1 / PB hb, Pan345, c)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP Pan345	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point PriceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the hour.
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DAHUBSF Pan345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHBSF hb,Pan345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub BusThe DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
DASF pb,hb,Pan345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the power flow busThe DAM Shift Factor of a power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
HUBDF hb, Pan345,c	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
HBDF pb, hb, Pan345,c	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per power flow bus of Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
pb	none	An energized power flow bus that is a component of a Hub Bus for the constraint c.
PB hb, Pan345,c	none	The total number of energized power flow buses in Hub Bus hb for the constraint c.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub with at least one energized power flow bus for the constraint c.
HBBC Pan345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus in base case.
HB Pan345,c	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus for the constraint c.
c	none	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP Pan345	=	Max [-$251, (RTRSVPOR + RTRDP + 
		  (HUBDF hb, Pan345 * ( (RTHBP hb, Pan345, y * TLMP y) /           (  TLMP y))))], if HB Pan345≠0
RTSPP Pan345	=	RTSPP ERCOT345Bus, if HB Pan345=0
Where:
RTRSVPOR 	=	   (RNWF y * RTORPA y)
RTRDP                      	=            (RNWF y  * RTORDPA y)
RNWF y	=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
RTHBP hb, Pan345, y	=	   (HBDF b, hb, Pan345 * RTLMP b, hb, Pan345, y)
HUBDF hb, Pan345	=	IF(HB Pan345=0, 0, 1 / HB Pan345)
HBDF b, hb, Pan345	=	IF(B hb, Pan345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, Pan345)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP Pan345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRSVPOR	$/MWh	Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line ReservesThe Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line Reserves for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTORPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder per intervalThe Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder for the SCED interval y.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment PriceThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.  
RTORDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price AdderThe Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
RTHBP hb, Pan345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Hub Bus Price at Hub Bus per SCED intervalThe Real-Time energy price at Hub Bus hb for the SCED interval y.
RTLMP b, hb, Pan345, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Locational Marginal Price at Electrical Bus of Hub Bus per intervalThe Real-Time LMP at Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the SCED interval y.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
HUBDF hb, Pan345	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub BusThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb.  
HBDF b, hb, Pan345	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per Electrical Bus of Hub BusThe distribution factor of Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb.  
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
b	none	An energized Electrical Bus that is a component of a Hub Bus.
B hb, Pan345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub.
HB Pan345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus.

[NPRR1007 and NPRR1057:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1057:]
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP Pan345	=	Max [-$251, (RTRDP + 
		 (HUBLMP Pan345, y * RNWF y ))]
Where:
RTRDP                      	=            (RNWF y  * RTRDPA y)
RNWF y	=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP Pan345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for EnergyThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy.  
RTRDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for EnergyThe Real-Time Price Adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
HUBLMP Pan345, y	$/MWh	Hub Locational Marginal PriceThe Hub LMP for the Hub for the SCED Interval y.
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.


[NPRR941, NPRR1007, and NPRR1057:  Insert applicable portions of Section 3.5.2.6 below upon system implementation for NPRR941 or NPRR1057; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; and renumber accordingly:]
3.5.2.6	Lower Rio Grande Valley Hub (LRGV 138/345)
(1)	The Lower Rio Grande Valley Hub 138/345 kV Hub is composed of the following listed Hub Buses:
	ERCOT Operations		
No.	Hub Bus	kV	Hub
1	AIRPORT	138	LRGV
2	ALBERTA	138	LRGV
3	BATES	138	LRGV
4	FRONTERA	138	LRGV
5	GARZA	138	LRGV
6	HARLNSW	138	LRGV
7	HEC	138	LRGV
8	KEY_SW	138	LRGV
9	LA_PALMA_345	345	LRGV
10	LA_PALMA_138	138	LRGV
11	LASPULGA	138	LRGV
12	LISTON	138	LRGV
13	LOMA_ALT	138	LRGV
14	MARCONI	138	LRGV
15	MILHWY	138	LRGV
16	MILITARY	138	LRGV
17	MV_WEDN4	138	LRGV
18	N_MCALLN	138	LRGV
19	NEDIN_345	345	LRGV
20	NEDIN_138	138	LRGV
21	OLEANDER	138	LRGV
22	P_ISABEL	138	LRGV
23	PALMHRTP	138	LRGV
24	PALMITO_345	345	LRGV
25	PALMITO_138	138	LRGV
26	PAREDES	138	LRGV
27	PHARMVEC	138	LRGV
28	PHARR	138	LRGV
29	PRICE_RD	138	LRGV
30	RAILROAD	138	LRGV
31	RAYMND2	138	LRGV
32	REDTAP	138	LRGV
33	RIO_GRAN	138	LRGV
34	RIOHONDO_345	345	LRGV
35	RIOHONDO_138	138	LRGV
36	ROMA_SW	138	LRGV
37	S_MCALLN	138	LRGV
38	SCARBIDE	138	LRGV
39	SILASRAY	138	LRGV
40	STEWART	138	LRGV
41	WESLACO	138	LRGV
(2)	The Lower Rio Grande Valley 138/345 kV Hub Price uses the aggregated Shift Factors of the Hub Buses for each hour of the Settlement Interval of the DAM in the Day-Ahead and is the simple average of the time weighted Hub Bus prices for each 15-minute Settlement Interval in Real-Time, for each Hub Bus included in this Hub.
(3)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DASPP LRGV 138/345 =	DASL – █(Σ@c)(DAHUBSF LRGV 138/345, c * DASP c), 
		if HBBC LRGV138/345≠0
DASPP LRGV138/345 =	DASPP ERCOT345Bus, if HBBC LRGV138/345=0
Where:
DAHUBSF LRGV138/345, c	=        █(Σ@hb)(HUBDF hb, LRGV138/345, c * DAHBSF hb, LRGV138/345, c)
DAHBSF hb, LRGV138/345, c	=	█(Σ@pb)(HBDF pb, hb, LRGV138/345, c * DASF pb, hb, LRGV138/345, c)
HUBDF hb, LRGV138/345, c	=	IF(HB LRGV138/345, c=0, 0, 1 / HB LRGV138/345, c)
HBDF pb, hb, LRGV138/345, c	=	IF(PB hb, LRGV138/345, c=0, 0, 1 / PB hb, LRGV138/345, c)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP LRGV138/345	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point PriceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the hour.
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DAHUBSF LRGV138/345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHBSF hb, LRGV138/345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub BusThe DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
DASF pb,hb, LRGV138/345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the power flow busThe DAM Shift Factor of a power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
HUBDF hb, LRGV138/345,c	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
HBDF pb, hb, LRGV138/345,c	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per power flow bus of Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
pb	none	An energized power flow bus that is a component of a Hub Bus for the constraint c.
PB hb, LRGV138/345,c	none	The total number of energized power flow buses in Hub Bus hb for the constraint c.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub with at least one energized power flow bus for the constraint c.
HBBC LRGV138/345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus in base case.
HB LRGV138/345,c	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the Hub with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus for the constraint c.
c	none	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP LRGV138/345          =	Max [-$251, (RTRDP + 
		█(Σ@y)(HUBLMP LRGV138/345, y * RNWF y))]
Where:
RTRDP                      	=          █(Σ@y)(RNWF y  * RTRDPA y)
RNWF y	=	TLMP y / █(Σ@y)TLMP y
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP LRGV138/345kV	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for EnergyThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy.  
RTRDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for EnergyThe Real-Time Price Adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
HUBLMP LRGV138/345, y	$/MWh	Hub Locational Marginal PriceThe Hub LMP for the Hub for the SCED Interval y.
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.

3.5.2.6	ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345)
(1)	The ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub price for Day-Ahead is calculated for each hour using the aggregated Shift Factors of four Hubs: the North 345 kV Hub, the South 345 kV Hub, the Houston 345 kV Hub, and the West 345 kV Hub.  The ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub price for Real-Time is the simple average of four prices from the applicable time period: the North 345 kV Hub price, the South 345 kV Hub price, the Houston 345 kV Hub price, and the West 345 kV Hub price.  The Panhandle 345 kV Hub is not included in either the Day-Ahead or Real-Time ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub price. 

[NPRR941:  Replace paragraph (1) above upon system implementation:]
(1)	The ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub price for Day-Ahead is calculated for each hour using the aggregated Shift Factors of four Hubs: the North 345 kV Hub, the South 345 kV Hub, the Houston 345 kV Hub, and the West 345 kV Hub.  The ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub price for Real-Time is the simple average of four prices from the applicable time period: the North 345 kV Hub price, the South 345 kV Hub price, the Houston 345 kV Hub price, and the West 345 kV Hub price.  The Panhandle 345 kV Hub and the Lower Rio Grande Valley 138/345 kV Hub are not included in either the Day-Ahead or Real-Time ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub price.
(2)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price for the Hub “ERCOT 345” for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DASPP ERCOT345	=	DASL – █(Σ@c)(DAHUBSF ERCOT345, c * DASP c), 
		if HBBC ERCOT345Bus≠0
DASPP ERCOT345	=	DASPP ERCOT345Bus, if HBBC ERCOT345Bus=0
Where:
DAHUBSF ERCOT345, c   = (DAHUBSF North345, c + DAHUBSF South345, c + 
	DAHUBSF Houston345, c + DAHUBSF West345, c) / 4
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP ERCOT345	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at ERCOT 345The DAM Settlement Point Price at ERCOT 345 Hub for the hour.
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DAHUBSF ERCOT345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of ERCOT 345 The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of ERCOT 345 Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHUBSF North345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of North 345The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of the North 345 Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHUBSF South345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of South 345The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of the South 345 Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHUBSF Houston345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of Houston 345The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of the Houston 345 Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHUBSF West345,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of West 345The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of the West 345 Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
HBBC ERCOT345Bus	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345 Bus) with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus in base case.  The Hub “ERCOT 345 Bus” includes any Hub Bus defined in the Hub “North 345”, “South 345”, “Houston 345” and “West 345”.
c	none	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
(3)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price for the Hub “ERCOT 345” for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows: 
RTSPP ERCOT345	=	(RTSPP North345 + RTSPP South345 + RTSPP Houston345 + RTSPP West345) / 4
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RTSPP ERCOT345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at ERCOT 345The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at ERCOT 345 Hub for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTSPP North345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at North 345The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the North 345 Hub for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTSPP South345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at South 345The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the South 345 Hub for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTSPP Houston345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at Houston 345The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Houston 345 Hub for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTSPP West345	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at West 345The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the West 345 Hub for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
3.5.2.7	ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345 Bus)
(1)	The ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub is composed of the Hub Buses listed in Section 3.5.2.1, North 345 kV Hub (North 345); Section 3.5.2.2, South 345 kV Hub (South 345); Section 3.5.2.3, Houston 345 kV Hub (Houston 345); and Section 3.5.2.4, West 345 kV Hub (West 345).  The Panhandle 345 kV Hub is not included in the ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub price. 

[NPRR941:  Replace paragraph (1) above upon system implementation:]
(1)	The ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub is composed of the Hub Buses listed in Section 3.5.2.1, North 345 kV Hub (North 345); Section 3.5.2.2, South 345 kV Hub (South 345); Section 3.5.2.3, Houston 345 kV Hub (Houston 345); and Section 3.5.2.4, West 345 kV Hub (West 345).  The Panhandle 345 kV Hub and the Lower Rio Grande Valley 138/345 kV Hub are not included in the ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub price.
(2)	The ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub uses the aggregated Shift Factors of the Hub Buses for each hour of the Settlement Interval of the DAM in the Day-Ahead and is the simple average of the time weighted Hub Bus prices for each 15-minute Settlement Interval in Real-Time, for each Hub Bus included in this Hub.
(3)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DASPP ERCOT345Bus =	DASL – █(Σ@c)(DAHUBSF ERCOT345Bus, c * DASP c), 
		if HBBC ERCOT345Bus≠0
DASPP ERCOT345Bus =	0, if HBBC ERCOT345Bus=0
Where:
DAHUBSF ERCOT345Bus, c   =	█(Σ@hb)(HUBDF hb, ERCOT345Bus, c * DAHBSF hb, ERCOT345Bus, c)
DAHBSF hb, ERCOT345Bus, c  =	█(Σ@pb)(HBDF pb, hb, ERCOT345Bus, c * DASF pb, hb, ERCOT345Bus, c)
HUBDF hb, ERCOT345Bus, c	=	IF(HB ERCOT345Bus, c=0, 0, 1 / HB ERCOT345Bus, c)
HBDF pb, hb, ERCOT345Bus, c	=	IF(PB hb, ERCOT345Bus, c=0, 0, 1 / PB hb, ERCOT345Bus, c)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP ERCOT345Bus	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point PriceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the hour.
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DAHUBSF ERCOT345Bus,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub for the constraint c for the hour. 
DAHBSF hb,ERCOT345Bus,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the Hub BusThe DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
DASF pb,hb,ERCOT345Bus,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift Factor of the power flow busThe DAM Shift Factor of a power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour. 
HUBDF hb,ERCOT345Bus,c	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
HBDF pb, hb, ERCOT345Bus,c	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per power flow bus of Hub Bus in a constraintThe distribution factor of power flow bus pb that is a component of Hub Bus hb for the constraint c for the hour.  
pb	none	An energized power flow bus that is a component of a Hub Bus for the constraint c.
PB hb, ERCOT345Bus,c	none	The total number of energized power flow buses in Hub Bus hb for the constraint c.
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345 Bus) with at least one energized power flow bus for the constraint c. The Hub “ERCOT 345 Bus” includes any Hub Bus defined in the Hub “North 345”, “South 345”, “Houston 345” and “West 345”. 
HBBC ERCOT345Bus	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345 Bus) with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus in base case. The Hub “ERCOT 345 Bus” includes any Hub Bus defined in the Hub “North 345”, “South 345”, “Houston 345” and “West 345”.
HB ERCOT345Bus,c	none	The total number of Hub Buses in the ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345 Bus) with at least one energized component in each Hub Bus for the constraint c. The Hub “ERCOT 345 Bus” includes any Hub Bus defined in the Hub “North 345”, “South 345”, “Houston 345” and “West 345”.
c	none	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
 (4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP ERCOT345Bus	=	Max [-$251, (RTRSVPOR + RTRDP + 
		 (HUBDF hb, ERCOT345Bus * ( (RTHBP hb, ERCOT345Bus, y * TLMP y) / ( TLMP y))))], if HB ERCOT345Bus ≠0
RTSPP ERCOT345Bus	=	0, if HB ERCOT345Bus =0
Where:
RTRSVPOR 	=	 (RNWF y * RTORPA y)
RTRDP                      	 =            (RNWF y * RTORDPA y)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y
RTHBP hb, ERCOT345Bus, y	=	 (HBDF b, hb, ERCOT345Bus * RTLMP b, hb, ERCOT345Bus, y)
HUBDF hb, ERCOT345Bus	=	1 / (HB North345 + HB South345 + HB Houston345 + HB West345)
If Electrical Bus b is a component of “North 345”
		HBDF b, hb, ERCOT345Bus	=	IF(B hb, North345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, North345)
Otherwise
		If Electrical Bus b is a component of “South 345”
			HBDF b, hb, ERCOT345Bus	=	IF(B hb, South345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, South345)
Otherwise
			If Electrical Bus b is a component of “Houston 345”
				HBDF b, hb, ERCOT345Bus	=	IF(B hb, Houston345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, Houston345)
Otherwise
				HBDF b, hb, ERCOT345Bus	=	IF(B hb, West345=0, 0, 1 / B hb, West345)

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP ERCOT345Bus	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRSVPOR	$/MWh	Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line ReservesThe Real-Time Reserve Price for On-Line Reserves for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTORPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder per intervalThe Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adder for the SCED interval y.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment PriceThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.  
RTORDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price AdderThe Real-Time price adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
RTHBP hb, ERCOT345Bus, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Hub Bus Price at Hub Bus per SCED intervalThe Real-Time energy price at Hub Bus hb for the SCED interval y.
RTLMP b, hb, ERCOT345Bus, y	$/MWh	Real-Time Locational Marginal Price at Electrical Bus of Hub Bus per intervalThe Real-Time LMP at Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb, for the SCED interval y.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
HUBDF hb, ERCOT345Bus	none	Hub Distribution Factor per Hub BusThe distribution factor of Hub Bus hb.  
HBDF b, hb, ERCOT345Bus	none	Hub Bus Distribution Factor per Electrical Bus of Hub BusThe distribution factor of Electrical Bus b that is a component of Hub Bus hb.  
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
b	none	An energized Electrical Bus that is a component of a Hub Bus.
B hb, North345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb that is a component of “North 345.”
B hb, South345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb that is a component of “South 345.”
B hb, Houston345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb that is a component of “Houston 345.”
B hb, West345	none	The total number of energized Electrical Buses in Hub Bus hb that is a component of “West 345.”
hb	none	A Hub Bus that is a component of the Hub.
HB North345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in “North 345.”
HB South345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in “South 345.”
HB Houston345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in “Houston 345.”
HB West345	none	The total number of Hub Buses in “West 345.”

[NPRR1007 and NPRR1057:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1057:]
(4)	The Real-Time Settlement Point Price of the Hub for a given 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RTSPP ERCOT345Bus	=	Max [-$251, (RTRDP +  (HUBLMPERCOT345Bus,y * RNWF y))]		
Where:
RTRDP                      	 =            (RNWF y * RTRDPA y)
RNWF y		=	TLMP y /  TLMP y

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
RTSPP ERCOT345Bus	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point PriceThe Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Hub, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTRDP	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price for EnergyThe Real-Time price for the 15-minute Settlement Interval, reflecting the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices that are calculated from the Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy.  
RTRDPA y	$/MWh	Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for EnergyThe Real-Time Price Adder that captures the impact of reliability deployments on energy prices for the SCED interval y. 
HUBLMP ERCOT345Bus,y	$/MWh	Hub Locational Marginal Price for the ERCOT345BusThe Hub LMP for the ERCOT Bus Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345 Bus), for the SCED Interval y.
RNWF y	none	Resource Node Weighting Factor per intervalThe weight used in the Resource Node Settlement Point Price calculation for the portion of the SCED interval y within the Settlement Interval.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per intervalThe duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
y	none	A SCED interval in the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  The summation is over the total number of SCED runs that cover the 15-minute Settlement Interval.

3.5.3	ERCOT Responsibilities for Managing Hubs
3.5.3.1	Posting of Hub Buses and Electrical Buses included in Hubs
(1)	ERCOT shall post a list of all the Hub Buses included in each Hub on the ERCOT website.  The list must include the name and kV rating for each Electrical Bus included in each Hub Bus.
3.5.3.2	Calculation of Hub Prices
(1)	ERCOT shall calculate Hub prices for each Settlement Interval as identified in the description of each Hub. 
3.6	Load Participation
3.6.1	Load Resource Participation
(1)	A Load Resource may participate by providing: 
(a)	Ancillary Service:
(i)	Regulation Up (Reg-Up) Service as a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) capable of providing Primary Frequency Response;
(ii)	Regulation Down (Reg-Down) Service as a CLR capable of providing Primary Frequency Response;
(iii)	Responsive Reserve (RRS) as a CLR qualified for Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) Dispatch and capable of providing Primary Frequency Response, or as a Load Resource controlled by high-set under-frequency relay;
(iv)	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) as a CLR qualified for SCED Dispatch and capable of providing Primary Frequency Response, or as a Load Resource that may or may not be controlled by high-set under-frequency relay;
[NPRR1244:  Replace paragraph (iv) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(iv)	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) as a CLR qualified for SCED Dispatch, or as a Load Resource that may or may not be controlled by high-set under-frequency relay;
(v)	Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) as a CLR qualified for SCED Dispatch or as a Load Resource that is not a CLR and that is not controlled by under-frequency relay; and
(vi)	A Load Resource that is not a CLR cannot simultaneously provide Non-Spin and RRS in Real-Time;
(b)	Energy in the form of Demand response from a CLR in Real-Time via SCED; 
(c)	Emergency Response Service (ERS) for hours in which the Load Resource does not have an Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility; and
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(c)	Emergency Response Service (ERS) for hours in which the Load Resource has a Resource Status of OUTL; and
(d)	Voluntary Load response in Real-Time. 
(2)	Except for voluntary Load response and ERS, loads participating in any ERCOT market must be registered as a Load Resource and are subject to qualification testing administered by ERCOT.  
(3)	All ERCOT Settlements resulting from Load Resource participation are made only with the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing the Load Resource.
(4)	A QSE representing a Load Resource and submitting a bid to buy for participation in SCED, as described in Section 6.4.3.1, RTM Energy Bids, must represent the Load Serving Entity (LSE) serving the Load of the Load Resource.  If the Load Resource is an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR), the QSE must represent the LSE serving the Load of all sites within the ALR.
(5)	The Settlement Point for a CLR is its Load Zone Settlement Point.  For an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), the Settlement Point for the charging Load withdrawn by the modeled CLR associated with the ESR is the Resource Node of the modeled Generation Resource associated with the ESR.
[NPRR1188 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1188; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(5)	The Settlement Point for a CLR that is not an ALR is its Resource Node Settlement Point.  The Settlement Point for an ALR is its Load Zone Settlement Point.
(6)	QSEs shall not submit offers for Load Resources containing sites associated with a Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR).
[NPRR1000:  Delete paragraph (6) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(7)	Each Resource Entity that represents one or more Load Resources shall ensure that each Load Resource it represents meets at least one of the following conditions:
(a)	The Load Resource is not located behind an Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) that corresponds to a Critical Load; 
(b)	The Load Resource is located behind an ESI ID that corresponds to a Critical Load, but the Load Resource is not a Critical Load and does not include a Critical Load; or
(c)	The Load Resource is located behind an ESI ID that corresponds to a Critical Load, but electric service from the ERCOT System is not required for the provision of the critical service due to the availability of back-up generation or other technologies at the site.
(8)	As a condition of obtaining and maintaining registration as a Load Resource, the Resource Entity for the Load Resource must have submitted an attestation, in a form deemed acceptable by ERCOT, stating that one of the conditions set forth in paragraph (7) above is true, and that if either of the conditions in paragraph (7)(b) or (7)(c) is true, then all of the Load Resource’s offered Demand response capacity will be available if deployed by ERCOT during an emergency.
(9)	Each QSE that represents one or more ERS Resources shall ensure that each ERS Resource identified in any ERS Submission Form submitted by the QSE meets at least one of the following conditions:
(a) 	The ERS Resource and each site within the ERS Resource are not located behind an ESI ID or unique meter identifier that corresponds to a Critical Load and are not used to support a Critical Load; or 
(b) 	The ERS Resource or one or more sites within the ERS Resource are behind an ESI ID or unique meter identifier that corresponds to a Critical Load, but the ERS Resource and each site within the ERS Resource are not a Critical Load, do not include a Critical Load, and are not used to support a Critical Load; or
(c) 	The ERS Resource or one or more sites within the ERS Resource are behind an ESI ID or unique meter identifier that corresponds to a Critical Load, but electric service from the ERCOT System is not required for the provision of the critical service due to the availability of back-up generation or other technologies at the site, and neither the ERS Resource nor any site within the ERS Resource is used to support a Critical Load.
3.6.2	Decision Making Entity for a Resource
(1)	Each Resource Entity that owns a Resource, except for a Load Resource that is not SCED qualified, shall submit a declaration to ERCOT, using Section 23, Form C, Managed Capacity Declaration, as to which Decision Making Entity (DME) has control of each of its Resources.  The declaration shall be signed by the Authorized Representative of the Resource Entity.  In addition, each Resource Entity that owns a Resource, except for a Load Resource that is not SCED qualified, shall notify ERCOT of any known changes in that declaration no later than 14 days prior to the date that the change takes effect, or as soon as possible in a situation where the Resource Entity is unable to meet the 14-day Notice requirement.  However, in no event may the Resource Entity inform ERCOT later than 72 hours before the date on which the change in DME takes effect.  Upon ERCOT’s request, each Resource Entity that owns a Resource, except for a Load Resource that is not SCED qualified, shall provide ERCOT with sufficient information or documentation to verify the DME’s control of the Resource.  ERCOT shall update the DME for a Resource effective the first Operating Hour of the Operating Day after ERCOT satisfactorily confirms the Resource Entity’s most recent declaration, but not sooner than the effective date specified on the Resource Entity’s most recent declaration.
3.7	Resource Parameters  
(1)	A Resource Entity shall register its Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), and Load Resources pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8, Resource Registration Procedures.  The Resource Parameters, listed in Section 3.7.1, Resource Parameter Criteria, are a subset of Resource Registration data defined in the Resource Registration Glossary.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	A Resource Entity shall register its Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), Settlement Only Energy Storage Systems (SOESSs), and Load Resources pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8, Resource Registration Procedures.  The Resource Parameters, listed in Section 3.7.1, Resource Parameter Criteria, are a subset of Resource Registration data defined in the Resource Registration Glossary.
(2)	ERCOT shall provide each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that represents a Resource the ability to submit changes to Resource Parameters for that Resource as described in Section 3.7.1.
(3)	The QSE may revise Resource Parameters only with sufficient documentation to justify a change in Resource Parameters. 
(4)	ERCOT shall use the Resource Parameters as inputs into the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC), Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED), Resource Limit Calculator, Load Frequency Control (LFC), and other ERCOT business processes.
(5)	The Independent Market Monitor (IMM) may require the QSE to provide justification for the Resource Parameters submitted.  
3.7.1	Resource Parameter Criteria
3.7.1.1	Generation Resource Parameters
(1)	Generation Resource Parameters that may be modified, with documented reason for change, by the QSE for immediate use upon ERCOT validation include:
(a)	Normal Ramp Rate curve; 
(b)	Emergency Ramp Rate curve; 
(c)	Minimum On-Line time;
(d)	Minimum Off-Line time;
(e)	Maximum On-Line time;
(f)	Maximum daily starts;
(g)	Maximum weekly starts;
(h)	Maximum weekly energy;
(i)	Hot start time;
(j)	Intermediate start time;
(k)	Cold start time;
(l)	Hot to intermediate time; and
(m)	Intermediate to cold time.
3.7.1.2	Load Resource Parameters
(1)	Resource Parameters that may be modified, with documented reason for change, by the QSE for immediate use upon ERCOT validation, which may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements, include the following for each of its Load Resources that is a non-Controllable Load Resource:
(a)	Maximum interruption time;
(b)	Maximum daily deployments;
(c)	Maximum weekly deployments;
(d)	Maximum weekly energy;
(e)	Minimum notice time;

(f)	Minimum interruption time; and
(g)	Minimum restoration time.
(2)	Resource Parameters that may be modified, with documented reason for change, by the QSE for immediate use upon ERCOT validation, which may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2, include the following for each of its Controllable Load Resources, including Aggregate Load Resources (ALRs):
(a)	Normal Ramp Rate curve;
(b)	Emergency Ramp Rate curve;
(c)	Maximum deployment time; and 
(d)	Maximum weekly energy.
(3)	Resource Parameters submitted by a Resource Entity must also include, for each of its ALRs, mapping between the ALR and the individually metered Loads, by Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) or, in the case of a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE), equivalent unique meter identifier, comprising the ALR.
3.7.1.3	 Energy Storage Resource Parameters
(1)	Resource Parameters for an ESR that may be modified, with documented reason for change, by the QSE for immediate use upon ERCOT validation include:
(a)	Normal Ramp Rate curve; and
(b)	Emergency Ramp Rate curve.
[NPRR1204:  Insert paragraph (c) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(c)	Round Trip Efficiency.
3.7.2	Changes in Resource Parameters with Operational Impacts
(1)	The QSE representing each Resource shall have the responsibility to submit changes to Resource Parameters for those Resource Parameters related to the Current Operating Plan (COP), as described in Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP), and to Real-Time operations as described in Section 6, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations.  If the QSE cancels a Resource Parameter submission, ERCOT will use as a default the Resource Parameter that is registered in the Network Operations Model.
3.7.3	Resource Parameter Validation
(1)	ERCOT shall verify that changes to Resource Parameters submitted by the QSE representing the Resource comply with the Resource Registration Glossary.  If a Resource Parameter is determined to be invalid, then ERCOT shall reject it and provide written notice to the QSE representing the Resource of the reason for the rejection.
3.8	Special Considerations
3.8.1	Split Generation Resources
(1)	When a generation meter is split, as provided for in Section 10.3.2.1, Generation Resource Meter Splitting, two or more independent Generation Resources must be created in the ERCOT Network Operations Model according to Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, to function in all respects as Split Generation Resources in ERCOT System operation.  A Combined Cycle Train may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.  A Distribution Generation Resource (DGR) or Distribution Energy Storage Resource (DESR) may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.  An Energy Storage Resource (ESR) may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.
(2)	Each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing a Split Generation Resource shall collect and shall submit to ERCOT the Resource Parameters defined under Section 3.7, Resource Parameters, for the Split Generation Resource it represents.  The parameters provided must be consistent with the parameters submitted by each other QSE that represents a Split Generation Resource from the same Generation Resource.  The parameters submitted for each Split Generation Resource for limits and ramp rates must be according to the capability of the Split Generation Resource represented by the QSE.  Startup and shutdown times, time to change status and number of starts must be identical for all the Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource submitted by each QSE.  ERCOT shall review data submitted by each QSE representing Split Generation Resources for consistency and notify each QSE of any errors.
(3)	Each Split Generation Resource may be represented by a different QSE.  The Resource Entities that own or control the Split Generation Resources from a single Generation Resource must designate a Master QSE.  Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource must comply in all respects to the requirements of a Generation Resource specified under these Protocols. 
(4)	The Master QSE shall: 
(a)	Serve as the Single Point of Contact for the Generation Resource, as required by Section 3.1.4.1, Single Point of Contact; 
(b)	Provide real-time telemetry for the total Generation Resource, as specified in Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements; and 
(c)	Receive Verbal Dispatch Instructions (VDIs) from ERCOT, as specified in Section 6.5.7.8, Dispatch Procedures.  
(5)	Each QSE is responsible for representing its Split Generation Resource in its Current Operating Plan (COP).  During the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Study Periods, any conflict in the Resource Status of a Split Generation Resource in the COP is resolved according to the following:
(a)	If a Split Generation Resource has a Resource Status of OUT for any hour in the COP, then any other QSEs’ COP entries for their Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource are also considered unavailable for the hour; 
(b)	If the QSEs for all Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource have submitted a COP and at least one of the QSEs has an On-Line Resource Status in a given hour, then the status for all Split Generation Resources for the Generation Resource is considered to be On-Line for that hour, except if any of the QSEs has indicated in the COP a Resource Status of OUT.
(6)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource shall update its individual Resource Status appropriately.
(7)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource may independently submit Energy Offer Curves and Three-Part Supply Offers.  ERCOT shall treat each Split Generation Resource offer as a separate offer, except that all Split Generation Resources in a single Generation Resource must be committed or decommitted together. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(7)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource may independently submit Energy Offer Curves, Ancillary Service Offers, and Three-Part Supply Offers.  ERCOT shall treat each Split Generation Resource offer as a separate offer, except that all Split Generation Resources in a single Generation Resource must be committed or decommitted together.
(8)	Each QSE submitting verifiable cost data to ERCOT shall coordinate among all owners of a single Generation Resource to provide individual Split Generation Resource data consistent with the total verifiable cost of the entire Generation Resource.  ERCOT may compare the total verifiable costs with other similarly situated Generation Resources to determine the reasonability of the cost.
3.8.2	Combined Cycle Generation Resources
(1)	ERCOT shall assign a logical Resource Node for use in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), RUC, Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM), Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) and Load Frequency Control (LFC) to each registered Combined Cycle Train.  Each Combined Cycle Generation Resource registered in the Combined Cycle Train will be mapped to the Combined Cycle Train logical Resource Node for the purposes of evaluating and settling each Combined Cycle Generation Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer and Ancillary Service Offer in the DAM, RUC and SCED.  Each generation unit identified in the Combined Cycle Train registration for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource configuration will be mapped to its designated Resource Node as determined in accordance with these Protocols and the Other Binding Document titled “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall assign a logical Resource Node for use in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), RUC, Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) and Load Frequency Control (LFC) to each registered Combined Cycle Train.  Each Combined Cycle Generation Resource registered in the Combined Cycle Train will be mapped to the Combined Cycle Train logical Resource Node for the purposes of evaluating and settling each Combined Cycle Generation Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer and Ancillary Service Offer in the DAM, RUC and SCED.  Each generation unit identified in the Combined Cycle Train registration for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource configuration will be mapped to its designated Resource Node as determined in accordance with these Protocols and the Other Binding Document titled “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”
(2)	If any of the generation units, designated in the Combined Cycle Train registration as a primary generation unit in a Combined Cycle Generation Resource, is isolated from the ERCOT Transmission Grid because of a transmission Outage reported in the Outage Scheduler, the DAM and RUC applications shall select an alternate generation unit for use in the application.
(3)	Three-Part Supply Offers submitted for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource will be modeled as High Reasonability Limit (HRL)-weighted injections at the Resource Connectivity Nodes of the associated Generation Resources.  ERCOT shall use the logical Resource Node to settle these offers. 
(4)	In the DAM and RUC, ERCOT shall model the energy injection from each generation unit registered to the Combine Cycle Generation Resource designated in a Three-Part Supply Offer as follows:
(a)	The energy injection for each generation unit registered in the Combined Cycle Generation Resource designated in a Three-Part Supply Offer shall be the offered energy injection for the selected price point on the Three-Part Supply Offer’s Energy Offer Curve times a weight factor as determined in paragraph (4)(b) below. 
(b)	The weight factor for each generation unit registered in a Combined Cycle Generation Resource shall be the generation unit’s HRL, as specified in the Resource Registration data provided to ERCOT pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, divided by the total of all HRL values for the generation units registered in the designated Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
(5)	In the Network Operations Network Models used in the DAM, RUC and SCED applications, each generation unit identified in the Combined Cycle Train registration must be modeled at its Resource Connectivity Node.
(6)	For Ancillary Services offered and provided from Combined Cycle Generation Resources, ERCOT shall apply, without exception, the same rules and requirements specified in these Protocols for the DAM, RUC and Adjustment Period and Real-Time markets that apply to Ancillary Services provided from any other Generation Resources. 
(a)	ERCOT systems shall determine the High and Low Ancillary Service Limits (HASL and LASL) for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource as follows:
(i)	In Real Time, relative to the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, or
(ii)	During the DAM and RUC study periods, relative to the HSL in the COP.
(b)	The QSE shall assure that the Combined Cycle Generation Resource designated as On-Line through telemetry or in the COP can meet its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(6)	For Ancillary Services offered and provided from Combined Cycle Generation Resources, ERCOT shall apply, without exception, the same rules and requirements specified in these Protocols for the DAM, RUC and Adjustment Period and Real-Time markets that apply to Ancillary Services provided from any other Generation Resources. 
(a)	ERCOT systems shall determine the operating limits for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource as follows:
(i)	In Real-Time, relative to the telemetered capacity limits, ramp rates, and Ancillary Service capabilities for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource;
(ii)	During the DAM study period, relative to the HSL in the COP; or
(iii) 	During the RUC Study Period, relative to the capacity limits and Ancillary Service capabilities in the COP.
3.8.3	Quick Start Generation Resources
(1)	The QSE for a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) that is available for deployment by SCED shall set the COP Resource Status to OFFQS, and the COP Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and COP HSL values to the expected sustainable LSL and HSL for the QSGR for the hour.  If the QSGR is providing Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) service, then the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin shall be set to the Resource’s QSE-assigned Non-Spin responsibility in the COP.  If the QSGR is providing ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), then the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for ECRS shall be set to the Resource’s QSE-assigned ECRS responsibility in the COP. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	The QSE for a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) that is available for deployment by SCED and awarding of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), if qualified and capable, shall set the COP Resource Status to OFFQS, and the COP Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and COP HSL values to the expected sustainable LSL and HSL for the QSGR for the hour.
(2)	The QSGR that is available for deployment by SCED shall telemeter a Resource Status of OFFQS and a LSL of zero prior to receiving a deployment instruction from SCED.  This status is necessary in order for SCED to recognize that the Resource can be Dispatched.  The status of the breaker shall be open and the output of the Resource shall be zero in order for the State Estimator to correctly assess the state of the system.  After being deployed for energy from SCED, the Resource shall telemeter an LSL equal to or less than the Resource’s actual output until the Resource has ramped to its physical LSL.  After reaching its physical LSL, the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL that reflects its physical LSL.  The QSGR that is providing Off-Line Non-Spin shall always telemeter an Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin to reflect the Resource’s Non-Spin obligation and shall always telemeter an Ancillary Service Schedule for Non-Spin of zero to make the capacity available for SCED.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	The QSGR that is available for deployment by SCED and awarding of ECRS and Non-Spin, if qualified and capable, shall telemeter a Resource Status of OFFQS and a LSL of zero prior to receiving a deployment instruction from SCED.  This status is necessary in order for SCED to recognize that the Resource can be Dispatched and/or awarded ECRS and Non-Spin.  The status of the breaker shall be open and the output of the Resource shall be zero in order for the State Estimator to correctly assess the state of the system.  After being deployed for energy from SCED, the Resource shall telemeter an LSL equal to or less than the Resource’s actual output until the Resource has ramped to its physical LSL.  After reaching its physical LSL, the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL that reflects its physical LSL.
(3)	A QSGR with a telemeter breaker status of open and a telemeter Resource Status OFFQS shall not provide Regulation Service or Responsive Reserve (RRS).
(4)	ERCOT shall adjust the QSGR’s Mitigated Offer Cap (MOC) curve as described in Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap.
(5)	For a QSGR that is physically Off-Line, the Resource Entity shall submit a Normal Ramp Rate curve and Emergency Ramp Rate curve indicating QSGR’s ability to reach its ten-minute tested output from zero output in five minutes.  This is necessary to prevent SCED from deploying multiple QSGRs due to ramp limitation in the first five minutes after being Dispatched by SCED.  QSGRs shall be exempt from Base Point Deviation Charges as described in Section 6.6.5.3, Resources Exempt from Deviation Charges.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(5)	For a QSGR that is physically Off-Line, the Resource Entity shall submit a Normal Ramp Rate curve and Emergency Ramp Rate curve indicating QSGR’s ability to reach its ten-minute tested output from zero output in five minutes.  This is necessary to prevent SCED from deploying multiple QSGRs due to ramp limitation in the first five minutes after being Dispatched by SCED.  QSGRs shall be exempt from Set Point Deviation Charges as described in Section 6.6.5.3, Resources Exempt from Deviation Charges.
(6)	Any hour in which the QSE for the QSGR has shown the Resource as available for SCED Dispatch as described in this Section 3.8.3 is considered a QSE-Committed Interval.
(7)	QSEs must submit and maintain an Energy Offer Curve for their QSGRs for all hours in which the COP Resource Status is submitted as OFFQS.  If a valid Energy Offer Curve or an Output Schedule does not exist for any QSGR for which a Resource Status of OFFQS is telemetered at the end of the Adjustment Period, then ERCOT shall notify the QSE and set the Output Schedule equal to the then-current telemetered output of the Resource until an Output Schedule or Energy Offer Curve is submitted in a subsequent Adjustment Period.  For use as SCED inputs, ERCOT shall create proxy Energy Offer Curves for the Resource as described in paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.
(8)	Other than for the potential decommitment of a QSGR as described in Section 3.8.3.1, Quick Start Generation Resource Decommitment Decision Process, following a SCED QSGR deployment, the QSGR is expected to follow the SCED Base Points.
3.8.3.1	Quick Start Generation Resource Decommitment Decision Process
(1)	For purposes of determining whether SCED needs a QSGR to continue to generate per paragraph (3) of Section 6.6.9, Emergency Operations Settlement, the QSE representing the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL of zero for at least one but no more than two non-consecutive SCED executions in each Operating Hour during which the QSGR is operating with a SCED Base Point equal to its registered LSL and shall telemeter Normal and Emergency Ramp Rates indicating that the QSGR can be Dispatched to zero output in a single SCED interval.    
(a)	If the SCED issued Base Point for the QSGR is non-zero in the interval where a zero LSL has been telemetered by the QSE, then the QSGR is deemed needed by SCED and the QSE shall immediately resume telemetering an LSL equal to the physical LSL and continue to operate the unit following subsequent Base Points.  
(b)	If the Base Point is zero, then the QSE will decommit the QSGR using normal operating practices.  
(c)	If at any point during the period in which the QSGR is in SHUTDOWN mode, the QSGR Locational Marginal Price (LMP) is greater than or equal to the Energy Offer Curve price, capped per Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap, the QSE may reverse the decommitment process, if possible and make the QSGR available for SCED following normal operating practices.
3.8.4	Generation Resources Operating in Synchronous Condenser Fast-Response Mode
(1)	A QSE is considered to have performed for the amount of its RRS obligation for the MW amount provided by a Generation Resource operating in synchronous condenser fast-response mode and triggered by an under-frequency relay device at the frequency set point specified in paragraph (3)(c) of Section 3.18, Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service, without corresponding RRS deployment by ERCOT.  This provision applies only for the duration when RRS MW is deployed by automatic under-frequency relay action.
3.8.5	Energy Storage Resources
(1)	For the purposes of all ERCOT Protocols and Other Binding Documents, all requirements that apply to Generation Resources and Controllable Load Resources shall be understood to apply to ESRs to the same extent, except where the Protocols explicitly provide otherwise.
[NPRR1246:  Delete paragraph (1) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(2)	A QSE representing an ESR may update the telemetered HSL and/or Maximum Power Consumption (MPC) for the ESR in Real-Time to ensure the ability to meet the ESR’s full Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for the current Operating Hour.  This provision only applies when the MOC for an ESR is set at the System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP) pursuant to paragraph (1)(b) of Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap.
[NPRR1075:  Delete paragraph (2) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
(3)	A QSE representing an ESR may update the telemetered HSL and/or MPC for the ESR in Real-Time to reflect state of charge limitations. 
[NPRR1075:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1014:]
(3)	A QSE representing an ESR may update the telemetered HSL and/or LSL for the ESR in Real-Time to reflect state of charge limitations. 
(4)	A QSE representing an ESR co-located with a Generation Resource may reduce the telemetered MPC of the Controllable Load Resource modeled to represent the charging side of the ESR when self-charging using output from the Generation Resource.  Such reduction in MPC shall be equal to the MW level of self-charge. 
[NPRR1075:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1014:]
(4)	A QSE representing an ESR co-located with a Generation Resource may update the telemetered LSL of the ESR when self-charging (using output from the Generation Resource).  The updated LSL shall be equal to the MW level of self-charge.
3.8.6	Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs) and Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs)
(1)	As a condition for the interconnection of a DGR or DESR, the affected Resource Entity, after consultation with the relevant Distribution Service Provider (DSP), shall provide documentation from the DSP to ERCOT stating that the interconnecting distribution circuit will not be disconnected as part of an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) Level 3, an under-frequency Load shedding event, or an under-voltage Load shedding event, unless required for DSP local system maintenance or during a DSP local system emergency.  
(a)	If a DSP subsequently determines that any circuit to which a DGR or DESR is interconnected will need to be disconnected during these Load shedding events, or that a DGR or DESR will need to be moved to a circuit that will be disconnected during these Load shedding events:
(i)	The DSP shall promptly notify the designated contact for the DGR or DESR;
(ii)	The Resource Entity shall promptly notify ERCOT of this fact via the Resource Registration process; and 
(iii)	The DGR or DESR will immediately be disqualified from offering to provide any Ancillary Service.
(b)	Upon receiving notification from the DSP that the DGR or DESR is no longer subject to disconnection during any of these Load shedding events, and that no known system limitations or changes have occurred that would inhibit the DGR or DESR from complying with Ancillary Service performance requirements, the Resource Entity for the DGR or DESR shall notify ERCOT of this fact via the Resource Registration process and will, at that time, be eligible to offer to provide Ancillary Services if the Resource is otherwise qualified to do so.
[NPRR1171 and NPRR1213:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1171; or upon system implementation and upon system implementation of NPRR1171 for NPRR1213, and renumber accordingly:]
(1)	As a condition for the interconnection of a DGR or DESR, the affected Resource Entity, after consultation with the relevant Distribution Service Provider (DSP), shall submit an executed Section 23, Form R, Interconnection Circuit Designation for Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs) and Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs).
(a)	The DSP shall indicate that the interconnecting distribution circuit for the DGR or DESR is subject to Load shed if the DSP determines that the distribution circuit may be disconnected as part of an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) Level 3 Load shedding event, an Under-Frequency Load Shed (UFLS) event, or an Under-Voltage Load Shed (UVLS) event.
(b)	The DSP shall indicate that the interconnecting distribution circuit for the DGR or DESR is not subject to Load shed if the DSP determines that the distribution circuit will not be disconnected for any Load shed purpose during any of the events listed in paragraph (a) above.  This condition may be met where:
(i)	A DGR or DESR is connected to a distribution circuit which the DSP has excluded from Load shedding events, which may include, but is not limited to, a distribution circuit that interconnects only DGRs or DESRs; or
(ii)	A DGR or DESR is connected to a distribution circuit where a recloser or other sectionalizing device excludes the DGR or DESR from Load shedding events on the distribution circuit.
(c)	If the DSP has indicated that the interconnecting distribution circuit may be subject to Load shed, the DGR or DESR may qualify to provide only the following Ancillary Services, subject to the limits established by ERCOT pursuant to Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities:
(i)	Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin);
(ii)	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS); and 
(iii)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down).
(d)	If the DSP has indicated that the interconnecting distribution circuit is not subject to Load shed, then the DGR or DESR shall not be subject to the Ancillary Service qualification limitations described in paragraph (c) above.
(e)	The DSP shall identify on Section 23, Form R, whether the DSP has identified any operational limitations for the DGR or DESR based on known system limitations and planning or operational studies, including studies performed in accordance with Planning Guide Section 5.4.2, Submission of Interconnection Agreement and TSP and/or DSP Studies and Technical Requirements.  Temporary limitations, such as may occur during maintenance outage conditions, are not required to be reported on Section 23, Form R.
(2)	If a DSP at any time after the interconnection of a DGR or DESR determines that any circuit to which the DGR or DESR is interconnected will be subject to Load shed during any of the Load shedding events listed in paragraph (1)(a) above, or that a DGR or DESR will need to be electrically relocated to a circuit that will be subject to Load shed during these Load shedding events:
(a)	The DSP shall promptly notify ERCOT and the designated contact for the DGR or DESR;
(b)	The Resource Entity for the DGR or DESR shall promptly submit an updated Section 23, Form R, to ERCOT and shall make a corresponding update to its Resource Registration data; and
(c)	The Ancillary Service qualification limitations in paragraph (1)(c) above will apply to the DGR or DESR.
(3)	If a DGR or DESR is interconnected to a circuit that is subject to Load shed and then either is relocated to a different circuit that is not subject to Load shed during any of the Load shed events listed in paragraph (1)(a) above or receives notification from the DSP that the DGR or DESR is no longer subject to Load shed during any of these events, the Resource Entity for the DGR or DESR shall submit an updated Section 23, Form R, to ERCOT and shall make a corresponding update to its Resource Registration data.
(2)	For a proposed conversion of an existing Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) to a DGR or DESR, the interconnecting DSP will evaluate the proposed conversion and will determine whether it is electrically and operationally feasible.  If the interconnecting DSP determines that the conversion is not electrically or operationally feasible, the DSP may disallow the conversion. 
[NPRR995 and NPRR1171:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	For a proposed conversion of an existing Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) to a DGR or for a proposed conversion of an existing Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS) to a DESR, the Resource Entity will follow the generation interconnection process outlined in Planning Guide Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification.
(3)	The Resource Node for a DGR or DESR shall be fixed at a single Electrical Bus in the ERCOT Network Operations Model.
(a)	If a DSP determines that a topology change has altered, or is expected to alter, the electrical path connecting the DGR or DESR to the ERCOT Transmission Grid for a period longer than 60 days:
(i)	The DSP shall promptly notify the interconnecting Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the designated contact for the DGR or DESR, and the interconnecting TSP shall notify ERCOT; and
(ii)	The Resource Entity shall submit a change request to ERCOT via the Resource Registration process.
3.8.7	Self-Limiting Facility 
(1)	A Resource Entity or Interconnecting Entity (IE) for a Self-Limiting Facility may establish a MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit by submitting an attestation in a form designated by ERCOT through the Resource Registration process.  The Resource Entity or IE shall simultaneously provide a copy of the attestation to the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP).  All Resources within a Self-Limiting Facility shall be represented by a single Resource Entity and a single QSE.
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	A Resource Entity or Interconnecting Entity (IE) for a Self-Limiting Facility may establish a MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit by submitting an attestation in a form designated by ERCOT through the Resource Registration process.  The Resource Entity or IE shall simultaneously provide a copy of the attestation to the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP).  All registered generators or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) within a Self-Limiting Facility shall be represented by a single Resource Entity and a single QSE.
(2)	A Self-Limiting Facility shall not inject or withdraw power in excess of its established MW Injection limit or its established MW Withdrawal limit. 
(3)	On a monthly basis, ERCOT will report to the Reliability Monitor and IMM any instance where a Self-Limiting Facility’s actual MW Injections exceeded the MW Injection limit or where actual MW Withdrawals exceeded the MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data for the Self-Limiting Facility, as described in Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria. 
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	On a monthly basis, ERCOT will report to the Reliability Monitor and IMM any instance where a Self-Limiting Facility’s actual MW Injections exceeded the MW Injection limit or where actual MW Withdrawals exceeded the MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data for the Self-Limiting Facility, based on the telemetry of the injection and withdrawal values provided by the QSE for the registered generator or ESS in the Self-Limiting Facility, as described in Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, and in Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements, or based on the meter data at the Point of Interconnection (POI) or Point of Common Coupling (POCC) for the Self-Limiting Facility.
(4)	If requested by ERCOT, the relevant QSE shall provide meter data to confirm whether the established limits for a Self-Limiting Facility were violated. 
(5)	If ERCOT determines that a Self-Limiting Facility connected at transmission voltage has exceeded either its MW Injection limit or its MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data by more than the greater of 5 MW or 3% of the limit, the Self-Limiting Facility shall submit a new generation interconnection request based on the installed MW capacity of the individual Resource(s) and shall deregister as a Self-Limiting Facility at the completion of the generation interconnection process.  The Self-Limiting Facility shall be subject to the established MW Injection limit and any established MW Withdrawal limit until the generation interconnection process has been completed.   
(6)	A Distribution Service Provider (DSP) may limit injections and withdrawals from any Generation Resource or ESR based on Resource Registration data and the interconnection agreement between the DSP and the IE or Resource Entity.  In that case, the IE or Resource Entity shall submit the attestation required by paragraph (1) above, and shall be considered a Self-Limiting Facility.  
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	A Distribution Service Provider (DSP) may limit injections and withdrawals from any Generation Resource, Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or ESR based on Resource Registration data and the interconnection agreement between the DSP and the IE or Resource Entity.  In that case, the IE or Resource Entity shall submit the attestation required by paragraph (1) above, and shall be considered a Self-Limiting Facility.
(7)	If ERCOT determines that a Self-Limiting Facility connected at distribution voltage has exceeded either its MW Injection limit or its MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data, the Self-Limiting Facility shall submit a new generation interconnection request based on the installed MW capacity of the individual Resource(s) and shall be deregistered as a Self-Limiting Facility at the completion of the generation interconnection process.  The Self-Limiting Facility shall be subject to any MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit until the generation interconnection process has been completed.     
(8)	The interconnecting TDSP, at its sole discretion, may use relaying to ensure a Self-Limiting Facility does not inject or withdraw energy in excess of its MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limits in order to protect the TDSP’s limiting element(s). 
[NPRR1029:  Insert Section 3.8.8 below upon system implementation:]
3.8.8	DC-Coupled Resources  
(1)	A DC-Coupled Resource shall be treated in the same manner as an Energy Storage Resource (ESR) for the purposes of determining Set Point Deviation Charges, as described in Section 6.6.5, Set Point Deviation Charge, and Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance (ESREDP), as described in Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, under one of the following conditions:
(a)	The Resource was awarded Ancillary Service;
(b)	The Resource’s instantaneous MW Injection or MW Withdrawal includes non-zero MW from the ESS component of the DC-Coupled Resource; or
(c)	The Resource’s telemetered HSL or LSL includes the ESS capability. 
(2)	At all other times, a DC-Coupled Resource shall be treated in the same manner as an IRR for the purposes of determining Set Point Deviation Charges, as described in Section 6.6.5, and ESREDP, as described in Section 8.1.1.4.1.
(3)	A QSE representing a DC-Coupled Resource that does not meet any of the conditions in paragraph (1) above: 
(a)	Shall set the Resource’s telemetered HSL equal to the current net output capability of the intermittent renewable generation component of the DC-Coupled Resource; and
(b)	Shall set the Resource’s output at or below the SCED Base Point telemetered by ERCOT if the Resource receives a flag indicating that SCED has dispatched it below the Resource’s HDL used by SCED or that it has been instructed not to exceed its Base Point.
3.9	Current Operating Plan (COP) 
(1)	Each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that represents a Resource must submit a Current Operating Plan (COP) under this Section. 
(2)	ERCOT shall use the information provided in the COP to calculate the High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) and Low Ancillary Service Limit (LASL) for each Resource for the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) processes. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	ERCOT shall use the information provided in the COP to calculate operating limits and Ancillary Service capabilities for each Resource for the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) processes.
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor the accuracy of each QSE’s COP as outlined in Section 8, Performance Monitoring.  
(4)	A QSE must notify ERCOT that it plans to have a Resource On-Line by means of the COP using the Resource Status codes listed in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria.  The QSE must show the Resource as On-Line with a Resource Status of ONRUC, indicating a RUC process committed the Resource for all RUC-Committed Intervals.  A QSE may only use a RUC-committed Resource during that Resource’s RUC-Committed Interval to meet the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility if the Resource has been committed by the RUC process to provide Ancillary Service.
(5)	To reflect changes to a Resource’s capability, each QSE shall report by exception, changes to the COP for all hours after the Operating Period through the rest of the Operating Day.  
(6)	When a QSE updates its COP to show changes in Resource Status, the QSE shall update for each On-Line Resource, either an Energy Offer Curve under Section 4.4.9, Energy Offers and Bids, or Output Schedule under Section 6.4.2, Output Schedules.  
(7)	Each QSE, including QSEs representing Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units, Firm Fuel Supply Service Resources (FFSSRs), or Black Start Resources, shall submit a revised COP reflecting changes in Resource availability as soon as reasonably practicable, but in no event later than 60 minutes after the event that caused the change.
(8)	Each QSE representing a Qualifying Facility (QF) must submit a Low Sustained Limit (LSL) that represents the minimum energy available, in MW, from the unit for economic dispatch based on the minimum stable steam delivery to the thermal host plus a justifiable reliability margin that accounts for changes in ambient conditions. 
(9)	When ERCOT issues a communication in the form of an Operating Condition Notice (OCN), Advisory, Watch, or Emergency Notice due to forecasted or actual cold or hot weather, for each Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR) a QSE represents, the QSE shall update the COP, Real-Time telemetry, and Outage or derate reporting to reflect any Resource-specific operating limitations based on: (i) capability and availability; (ii) fuel supply or inventory concerns, including fuel switching capabilities; or (iii) environmental constraints and the impact on the Generation Resource or ESR due to the weather conditions.  QSEs shall provide these updates in accordance with Sections 3.1.4, Communications Regarding Resource and Transmission Facility Outages; 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements; 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP); 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria; and Nodal Operating Guide Section 7.3, Telemetry. 
3.9.1	Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria
(1)	Each QSE that represents a Resource must submit a COP to ERCOT that reflects expected operating conditions for each Resource for each hour in the next seven Operating Days.
(2)	Each QSE that represents a Resource shall update its COP reflecting changes in availability of any Resource as soon as reasonably practicable, but in no event later than 60 minutes after the event that caused the change.  Each QSE shall timely update its COP unless in the reasonable judgment of the QSE, such compliance would create an undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment.  The QSE is excused from updating the COP only for so long as the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment exists.  The time for updating the COP begins once the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment no longer exists.
(3)	The Resource capacity in a QSE’s COP must be sufficient to supply the Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility of that QSE.  Additionally, for a COP provided for an ESR, the QSE shall ensure that the Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC) for any two consecutive hours shall be feasible based on the ESR’s maximum rate of charge or discharge.
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, NPRR1029, and NPRR1204:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007 and NPRR1204; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(3)	Each QSE that represents a Resource shall update its COP to reflect the ability of the Resource to provide each Ancillary Service by product and sub-type.  Additionally, for a COP provided for an ESR, the QSE shall ensure that the Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC) for any two consecutive hours shall be feasible based on the ESR’s maximum rate of charge or discharge.
(4)	Load Resource COP values may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements.
(5)	A COP must include the following for each Resource represented by the QSE:
(a)	The name of the Resource;
(b)	The expected Resource Status:
(i)	Select one of the following for Generation Resources synchronized to the ERCOT System that best describes the Resource’s status.  Unless otherwise provided below, these Resource Statuses are to be used for COP and/or Real-Time telemetry purposes, as appropriate.
(A)	ONRUC – On-Line and the hour is a RUC-Committed Hour;
(B)	ONREG – On-Line Resource with Energy Offer Curve providing Regulation Service;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (B) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(C)	ON – On-Line Resource with Energy Offer Curve;
(D)	ONDSR – On-Line Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR);
[NPRR1000:  Delete item (D) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(E)	ONOS – On-Line Resource with Output Schedule;
(F)	ONOSREG – On-Line Resource with Output Schedule providing Regulation Service;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (F) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(G)	ONDSRREG – On-Line DSR providing Regulation Service;
[NPRR1000, NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (G) above upon system implementation for NPRR1000, NPRR1014, or NPRR1029; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; and renumber accordingly.]
(H)	FRRSUP – Available for Dispatch of Fast Responding Regulation Service (FRRS).  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (H) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 and NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(I)	ONTEST – On-Line blocked from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) for operations testing (while ONTEST, a Generation Resource may be shown on Outage in the Outage Scheduler);
(J)	ONEMR – On-Line EMR (available for commitment or dispatch only for ERCOT-declared Emergency Conditions; the QSE may appropriately set LSL and High Sustained Limit (HSL) to reflect operating limits);
(K)	ONRR – On-Line as a synchronous condenser providing Responsive Reserve (RRS) but unavailable for Dispatch by SCED and available for commitment by RUC;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (K) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(L)	ONECRS – On-Line as a synchronous condenser providing ERCOT Contingency Response Service (ECRS) but unavailable for Dispatch by SCED and available for commitment by RUC;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (L) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(M)	ONOPTOUT – On-Line and the hour is a RUC Buy-Back Hour; 
(N)	SHUTDOWN – The Resource is On-Line and in a shutdown sequence, and has no Ancillary Service Obligations other than Off-Line Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) which the Resource will provide following the shutdown.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (N) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(N)	SHUTDOWN – The Resource is On-Line and in a shutdown sequence, and is not eligible for an Ancillary Service award.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
(O)	STARTUP – The Resource is On-Line and in a start-up sequence and has no Ancillary Service Obligations.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (O) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(O)	STARTUP – The Resource is On-Line and in a start-up sequence and is not eligible for an Ancillary Service award, unless coming On-Line in response to a manual deployment of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) or Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin).  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
(P)	OFFQS – Off-Line but available for SCED deployment.  Only qualified Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) may utilize this status; 
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (P) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(P)	OFFQS – Off-Line but available for SCED deployment and to provide ECRS and Non-Spin, if qualified and capable.  Only qualified Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) may utilize this status;
(Q)	ONFFRRRS – Available for Dispatch of RRS when providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) from Generation Resources.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes.  A Resource with this Resource Status may also be providing Ancillary Services other than FFR; and
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (Q) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]

[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Insert  item (K) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(K)	ONSC – Resource is On-Line operating as a synchronous condenser and available to provide Responsive Reserve (RRS) and ECRS, if qualified and capable, and for commitment by RUC, but is unavailable for Dispatch by SCED.  For SCED, Resource Base Points will be set equal to the telemetered net real power of the Resource available at the time of the SCED execution; and
(R)	ONHOLD – Resource is On-Line but temporarily unavailable for Dispatch by SCED or for participating in Ancillary Services.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes.  For SCED, Resource Base Points will be set equal to the telemetered net real power of the Resource available at the time of the SCED execution.
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, NPRR1029, and NPRR1188:  Replace item (R) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014, NPRR1029, or NPRR1188:]
(R)	ONHOLD – Resource is On-Line but temporarily unavailable for Dispatch by SCED or Ancillary Service awards due to a valid and verifiable operational reason.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes.  For SCED, Resource Base Points will be set equal to the telemetered net real power of the Resource available at the time of the SCED execution.
(ii)	Select one of the following for Off-Line Generation Resources not synchronized to the ERCOT System that best describes the Resource’s status.  These Resource Statuses are to be used for COP and/or Real-Time telemetry purposes, as appropriate.
(A)	OUT – Off-Line and unavailable, or not connected to the ERCOT System and operating in a Private Microgrid Island (PMI);
(B)	OFFNS – Off-Line but reserved for Non-Spin;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (B) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(C)	OFF – Off-Line but available for commitment in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and RUC;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace item (C) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(B)	OFF – Off-Line but available for commitment in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), RUC, and providing Non-Spin, if qualified and capable;
(D)	EMR – Available for commitment as a Resource contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, or under paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, ERCOT Control Area Authority, or available for commitment only for ERCOT-declared Emergency Condition events; the QSE may appropriately set LSL and HSL to reflect operating limits;
(E)	EMRSWGR – Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) operating in a non-ERCOT Control Area, or in the case of a Combined Cycle Train with one or more SWGRs, a configuration in which one or more of the physical units in that configuration are operating in a non-ERCOT Control Area.
(iii)	Select one of the following for Load Resources.  Unless otherwise provided below, these Resource Statuses are to be used for COP and/or Real-Time telemetry purposes.
(A)	ONRGL – Available for Dispatch of Regulation Service by Load Frequency Control (LFC) and, for any remaining Dispatchable capacity, by SCED with a Real-Time Market (RTM) Energy Bid; 
[NPRR1188:  Replace item (A) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(A)	ONRGL – Available for Dispatch of Regulation Service by Load Frequency Control (LFC) and, for any remaining Dispatchable capacity, by SCED with an Energy Bid Curve;
(B)	FRRSUP – Available for Dispatch of FRRS by LFC and not Dispatchable by SCED.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
(C)	FRRSDN – Available for Dispatch of FRRS by LFC and not Dispatchable by SCED.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;  
(D)	ONCLR – Available for Dispatch as a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) by SCED with an RTM Energy Bid;
[NPRR1188:  Replace item (D) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(D)	ONCLR – Available for Dispatch as a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) by SCED with an Energy Bid Curve;
(E)	ONRL – Available for Dispatch of RRS or Non-Spin, excluding CLRs.  A Load Resource, excluding CLR, may not provide ECRS with this Resource Status;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete items (A)-(E) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]

[NPRR1188:  Insert items (F) and (G) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(F)	ONTEST – On-Line blocked from SCED for operations testing;
(G)	ONHOLD – CLR is On-Line but temporarily unavailable for Dispatch by SCED or providing Ancillary Service due to a valid and verifiable operational reason.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes.  For SCED, Resource Base Points will be set equal to the telemetered net real power of the Resource available at the time of the SCED execution.
(F)	ONECL – Available for Dispatch of ECRS or available for Dispatch of ECRS and RRS simultaneously, excluding CLRs;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (F) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(G)	OUTL – Not available;
[NPRR1188:  Replace item (G) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(I)	OUTL – Not available.  For a CLR that is not an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR), this status can only be used when the Resource is Off-Line and unavailable with its energy consumption at zero;
(H)	ONFFRRRSL – Available for Dispatch of RRS when providing FFR, excluding CLRs.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (H) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029.]

[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, NPRR1029:  Insert item (B) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(B)	ONL – On-Line and available for Dispatch by SCED or providing Ancillary Services.

[NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (iv) below upon system implementation:]
(iv)	Select one of the following for Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).  Unless otherwise provided below, these Resource Statuses are to be used for COP and Real-Time telemetry purposes:
(A)	ON – On-Line Resource with Energy Bid/Offer Curve;
(B)	ONOS – On-Line Resource with Output Schedule;
(C)	ONTEST – On-Line blocked from SCED for operations testing (while ONTEST, an ESR may be shown on Outage in the Outage Scheduler);
(D)	ONEMR – On-Line EMR (available for commitment or dispatch only for ERCOT-declared Emergency Conditions; the QSE may appropriately set LSL and High Sustained Limit (HSL) to reflect operating limits);
(E)	ONHOLD – Resource is On-Line but temporarily unavailable for Dispatch by SCED or Ancillary Service awards.  ESRs shall not be discharging into or charging from the grid. This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes; and
(F)	OUT – Off-Line and unavailable, or not connected to the ERCOT System and operating in a Private Microgrid Island (PMI);
(c)	The HSL;
(i)	For Load Resources other than CLRs, the HSL should equal the expected power consumption;
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1029:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (ii) below upon system implementation:]
(ii)	For ESRs, the HSL may be negative;
(d)	The LSL;
(i)	For Load Resources other than CLRs, the LSL should equal the expected Low Power Consumption (LPC);
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1029:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (ii) below upon system implementation:]
(ii)	For ESRs, the LSL may be positive;
(e)	The High Emergency Limit (HEL);
(f)	The Low Emergency Limit (LEL); and
(g)	Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility capacity in MW for:
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace applicable portions of item (g) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(g)	Ancillary Service capability in MW for each product and sub-type.
(i)	Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up);
(ii)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down);
(iii)	RRS;
(iv)	ECRS; and
(v)	Non-Spin. 
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete items (i)-(v) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029.]
(h)	For ESRs:
(i)	Minimum State of Charge (MinSOC);
(ii)	Maximum State of Charge (MaxSOC); and
(iii)	Hour Beginning Planned SOC.
(6)	For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, the above items are required for each operating configuration.  In each hour only one Combined Cycle Generation Resource in a Combined Cycle Train may be assigned one of the On-Line Resource Status codes described above.
(a)	During a RUC study period, if a QSE’s COP reports multiple Combined Cycle Generation Resources in a Combined Cycle Train to be On-Line for any hour, then until the QSE corrects its COP, the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource with the largest HSL is considered to be On-Line and all other Combined Cycle Generation Resources in the Combined Cycle Train are considered to be Off-Line.  Furthermore, until the QSE corrects its COP, the Off-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resources as designated through the application of this process are ineligible for RUC commitment or de-commitment Dispatch Instructions.
(b)	For any hour in which QSE-submitted COP entries are used to determine the initial state of a Combined Cycle Generation Resource for a DAM or Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) study and the COP shows multiple Combined Cycle Generation Resources in a Combined Cycle Train to be in an On-Line Resource Status, then until the QSE corrects its COP, the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource that has been On-Line for the longest time from the last recorded start by ERCOT systems, regardless of the reason for the start, combined with the COP Resource Status for the remaining hours of the current Operating Day, is considered to be On-Line at the start of the DRUC study period and all other COP-designated Combined Cycle Generation Resources in the Combined Cycle Train are considered to be Off-Line.
(c)	ERCOT systems shall allow only one Combined Cycle Generation Resource in a Combined Cycle Train to offer Off-Line Non-Spin in the DAM or Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM).
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(c)	ERCOT systems shall allow only one Combined Cycle Generation Resource in a Combined Cycle Train to offer Off-Line Non-Spin in the DAM or SCED.
(i)	If there are multiple Non-Spin offers from different Combined Cycle Generation Resources in a Combined Cycle Train, then prior to execution of the DAM, ERCOT shall select the Non-Spin offer from the Combined Cycle Generation Resource with the highest HSL for consideration in the DAM and ignore the other offers. 
(ii)	Combined Cycle Generation Resources offering Off-Line Non-Spin must be able to transition from the shutdown state to the offered Combined Cycle Generation Resource On-Line state and be capable of ramping to the full amount of the Non-Spin offered. 
(d)	The DAM and RUC shall honor the registered hot, intermediate or cold Startup Costs for each Combined Cycle Generation Resource registered in a Combined Cycle Train when determining the transition costs for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource.  In the DAM and RUC, the Startup Cost for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource shall be determined by the positive transition cost from the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combine Cycle Train or from a shutdown condition, whichever ERCOT determines to be appropriate.
(7)	ERCOT may accept COPs only from QSEs.
(8)	For the first 168 hours of the COP, ERCOT will update the HSL values for Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) with the most recently updated Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF), and the HSL values for PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) with the most recently updated Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF).  ERCOT will notify the QSE via an Extensible Markup Language (XML) message each time COP HSL values are updated with the forecast values.  A QSE representing a WGR may override the STWPF HSL value but must submit an HSL value that is less than or equal to the amount for that Resource from the most recent STWPF provided by ERCOT; a QSE representing a PVGR may override the STPPF HSL value but must submit an HSL value that is less than or equal to the amount for that Resource from the most recent STPPF provided by ERCOT.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(8)	For the first 168 hours of the COP, ERCOT will update the HSL values for Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) with the most recently updated Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF), and the HSL values for PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) with the most recently updated Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF).  A QSE representing a DC-Coupled Resource shall provide the capacity value of the Energy Storage System (ESS) that is included in the HSL of the DC-Coupled Resource, and ERCOT will update the DC-Coupled Resource’s HSL with the sum of the forecasts of the intermittent renewable generation component and the QSE-submitted value for the ESS component.  ERCOT will notify the QSE via an Extensible Markup Language (XML) message each time COP HSL values are updated with the forecast values.  A QSE representing a WGR may override the STWPF HSL value but must submit an HSL value that is less than or equal to the amount for that Resource from the most recent STWPF provided by ERCOT; a QSE representing a PVGR may override the STPPF HSL value but must submit an HSL value that is less than or equal to the amount for that Resource from the most recent STPPF provided by ERCOT.  A QSE representing a DC-Coupled Resource may override the COP HSL value with a value that is lower than the ERCOT-populated value, and may override with a value that is higher than the ERCOT-populated value if the ESS component of the DC-Coupled Resource can support the higher value.
(9)	A QSE representing a Generation Resource that is not actively providing Ancillary Services or is providing Off-Line Non-Spin that the Resource will provide following the shutdown, may only use a Resource Status of SHUTDOWN to indicate to ERCOT through telemetry that the Resource is operating in a shutdown sequence or a Resource Status of ONTEST to indicate in the COP and through telemetry that the Generation Resource is performing a test of its operations either manually dispatched by the QSE or by ERCOT as part of the test.  A QSE representing a Generation Resource that is not actively providing Ancillary Services may only use a Resource Status of STARTUP to indicate to ERCOT through telemetry that the Resource is operating in a start-up sequence requiring manual control and is not available for Dispatch.
(10)	If a QSE has not submitted a valid COP for any Generation Resource for any hour in the DAM or RUC Study Period, then the Generation Resource is considered to have a Resource Status as OUT thus not available for DAM awards or RUC commitments for those hours. 
(11)	If a COP is not available for any Resource for any hour from the current hour to the start of the DAM period or RUC study, then the Resource Status for those hours are considered equal to the last known Resource Status from a previous hour’s COP or from telemetry as appropriate for that Resource.
(12)	A QSE representing a Resource may only use the Resource Status code of EMR for a Resource whose operation would have impacts that cannot be monetized and reflected through the Resource’s Energy Offer Curve or recovered through the RUC make-whole process or if the Resource has been contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1 or under paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1.  If ERCOT chooses to commit an Off-Line unit with EMR Resource Status that has been contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1 or under paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, the QSE shall change its Resource Status to ONRUC.  Otherwise, the QSE shall change its Resource Status to ONEMR.
(13)     A QSE representing a Resource may use the Resource Status code of ONEMR for a        Resource that is: 
(a)	On-Line, but for equipment problems it must be held at its current output level until repair and/or replacement of equipment can be accomplished; or
(b)	A hydro unit. 
(14)	A QSE operating a Resource with a Resource Status code of ONEMR may set the HSL and LSL of the unit to be equal to ensure that SCED does not send Base Points that would move the unit.
(15)	A QSE representing a Resource may use the Resource Status code of EMRSWGR only for an SWGR.
(16)	A QSE representing a Self-Limiting Facility must ensure that the sum of the COP HSL/LSL and the sum of the telemetered HSL/LSL submitted for each Resource within the Self-Limiting Facility do not exceed either the limit on MW Injection or the limit on the MW Withdrawal established for the Self-Limiting Facility.
[NPRR1029:  Insert paragraph (17) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(17)	A QSE representing a DC-Coupled Resource shall not submit an HSL that exceeds the inverter rating or the sum of the nameplate ratings of the generation component(s) of the Resource.
(17)	A QSE representing an ESR shall ensure that COP values for a given hour follow the following rules:
(a)	MinSOC is greater than or equal to the nameplate minimum MWh operating SOC limit;
(b)	MaxSOC is less than or equal to the nameplate maximum MWh operating SOC limit; and
(c)	Hour Beginning Planned SOC is a value between the corresponding COP values of MinSOC and MaxSOC.
3.9.2	Current Operating Plan Validation
(1)	ERCOT shall verify that each COP, on its submission, complies with the criteria described in Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria.  ERCOT shall notify the QSE by means of the Messaging System if the QSE’s COP fails to comply with the criteria described in Section 3.9.1 and this Section 3.9.2 for any reason.  The QSE must then resubmit the COP within the appropriate market timeline.
(2)	ERCOT may reject a COP that does not meet the criteria described in Section 3.9.1.
(3)	If a Resource is designated in the COP to provide Ancillary Service, then ERCOT shall verify that the COP complies with Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities.  The Ancillary Service Supply Responsibilities as indicated in the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility submitted immediately before the end of the Adjustment Period are physically binding commitments for each QSE for the corresponding Operating Period. 
(4)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE if the sum of the Ancillary Service capacity designated in the COP for each hour, by service type, is less than the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility for each service type for that hour.  If the QSE does not correct the deficiency within one hour after receiving the notice from ERCOT, then ERCOT shall follow the procedures outlined in Section 6.4.9.1, Evaluation and Maintenance of Ancillary Service Capacity Sufficiency. 
(5)	A QSE may change Ancillary Service Resource designations by changing its COP, subject to Section 6.4.9.1. 
(6)	If ERCOT determines that it needs more Ancillary Service during the Adjustment Period, then the QSE’s allocated portion of the additional Ancillary Service may be self-arranged.  
[NPRR1007:  Delete paragraphs (3)-(6) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(7)	ERCOT systems must be able to detect a change in status of a Resource shown in the COP and must provide notice to ERCOT operators of changes that a QSE makes to its COP.
(8)	A QSE representing a Resource that has an Energy Offer Curve valid for an hour of the COP may not designate a Resource Status of ONOS or ONDSR for that hour for that Resource.
[NPRR1000:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(8)	A QSE representing a Resource that has an Energy Offer Curve valid for an hour of the COP may not designate a Resource Status of ONOS for that hour for that Resource.
3.10	Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry
(1)	ERCOT shall use the physical characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all Transmission Elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Resource Entities to specify limits within which the transmission network is defined in the network models made available to Market Participants as noted below and used to operate the ERCOT Transmission Grid as updated.  If a Private Use Network is not registered as a Resource Entity, then ERCOT shall use equivalent model data provided by TSPs, if available, that represents the Private Use Network in the TSPs’ modeling systems for use in the Network Operations Model.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT shall use the physical characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all Transmission Elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), and Resource Entities to specify limits within which the transmission network is defined in the network models made available to Market Participants as noted below and used to operate the ERCOT Transmission Grid as updated.  If a Private Use Network is not registered as a Resource Entity, then ERCOT shall use equivalent model data provided by TSPs, if available, that represents the Private Use Network in the TSPs’ modeling systems for use in the Network Operations Model.
(2)	Because the ERCOT market requires accurate modeling of Transmission Elements in order to send accurate Base Points and pricing signals to Market Participants, ERCOT shall manage the Network Operations Model.  By providing Base Points and pricing signals by Electrical Bus to Market Participants, the Market Participants’ responses result in power flows on all Transmission Elements that ERCOT must monitor and, if necessary for reliability reasons, manage within ratings provided by the TSP and Resource Entity and limits assigned by ERCOT including Generic Transmission Limits (GTLs) as may be defined in Section 3.10.7.6, Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Because the ERCOT market requires accurate modeling of Transmission Elements in order to send accurate Base Points and pricing signals to Market Participants, ERCOT shall manage the Network Operations Model.  By providing Base Points and pricing signals by Electrical Bus to Market Participants, the Market Participants’ responses result in power flows on all Transmission Elements that ERCOT must monitor and, if necessary for reliability reasons, manage within ratings provided by each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity and limits assigned by ERCOT including Generic Transmission Limits (GTLs) as may be defined in Section 3.10.7.6, Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits.
(3)	TSPs and Resource Entities shall provide ERCOT with equipment ratings and update the ratings as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT may request TSPs and Resource Entities to provide detailed information on the methodology, including data for determination of each requested rating.  ERCOT may review and comment on the methodology.  ERCOT shall post all methodologies on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within seven days following a change in methodology. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with equipment ratings and update the ratings as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT may request that a TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity provide detailed information on the methodology, including data for determination of each requested rating.  ERCOT may review and comment on the methodology.  ERCOT shall post all methodologies on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within seven days following a change in methodology. 
(4)	ERCOT must use system ratings consistent with the ratings expected to be used during Real-Time for the system condition being modeled, including Dynamic Ratings using expected temperatures for those system conditions.  For each model, ERCOT shall post ratings and the ambient temperatures used to calculate the ratings on the MIS Secure Area when the model is published. 
(5)	ERCOT shall use consistent information within and between the various models used by ERCOT in a manner that yields consistent results.  For operational and planning models that are intended to represent the same system state the results should be consistent and the naming should be identical.  
(6)	ERCOT shall use a Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR) process to control all information entering the Network Operations Model.  In order to allow for construction schedules, each NOMCR must be packaged as a single package describing any incremental changes and referencing any prerequisite NOMCRs, using an industry standard data exchange format.  A package must contain a series of instructions that define the changes that need to be made to implement a network model change.  ERCOT shall verify each package for completeness and accuracy prior to the period it is to be implemented.  
(7)	ERCOT shall use an automated process to manage the Common Information Model (CIM) compliant packages loaded into the Network Operations Model as each construction phase is completed.  ERCOT shall reject any NOMCRs that are not CIM compliant.  Each CIM compliant NOMCR must also be associated with commands to update the graphical displays associated with the network model modification.  During the testing phase, each NOMCR must be tested for proper sequencing and its effects on downstream applications.
(8)	ERCOT shall track each data submittal received from TSPs via the NOMCR process and from Resource Entities via the Resource Registration process.  Resource Registration data is converted by ERCOT to the appropriate NOMCR format through implementation and final testing of the change.  ERCOT shall notify each TSP and Resource Entity when the requested change is processed and implemented in accordance with Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  ERCOT shall also provide the submitting TSP a link to a Network Operations Model containing the change for verifying the implementation of the NOMCR and associated one-line displays.  ERCOT shall post all NOMCRs on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only within five Business Days following receipt of the NOMCR, consistent with the requirements regarding ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality.  When posting a NOMCR, each change must be posted using the CIM data exchange format showing incremental changes to the last Network Operations Model for TSPs only, to facilitate TSPs in updating their internal network models to reflect changes made at ERCOT.  For each NOMCR, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only the current status on the in-service date for each NOMCR, including any prerequisite NOMCRs provided by the requestor. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(8)	ERCOT shall track each data submittal received from TSPs and DCTOs via the NOMCR process and from Resource Entities via the Resource Registration process.  Resource Registration data is converted by ERCOT to the appropriate NOMCR format through implementation and final testing of the change.  ERCOT shall notify each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity when the requested change is processed and implemented in accordance with Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  ERCOT shall also provide the submitting TSP and DCTO a link to a Network Operations Model containing the change for verifying the implementation of the NOMCR and associated one-line displays.  ERCOT shall post all NOMCRs on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only within five Business Days following receipt of the NOMCR, consistent with the requirements regarding ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality.  When posting a NOMCR, each change must be posted using the CIM data exchange format showing incremental changes to the last Network Operations Model for TSPs only, to facilitate TSPs in updating their internal network models to reflect changes made at ERCOT.  For each NOMCR, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only the current status on the in-service date for each NOMCR, including any prerequisite NOMCRs provided by the requestor. 
(9)	ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model under this Section and coordinate it with the planning models for consistency to the extent applicable.  
(10)	Any requestor of any changes in system topology or telemetry must receive approval from ERCOT before connecting of any associated equipment to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall notify a requestor of any deficiencies in its submittal for changes in system topology or telemetry.  ERCOT shall accept corrections to the submittal if the requestor has corrected any deficiencies by the required submittal date specified in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall post any changes to an NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs within three Business Days of accepting corrections.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (10) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(10)	Any requestor of any changes in system topology or telemetry must receive approval from ERCOT before connecting of any associated equipment to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall notify a requestor of any deficiencies in its submittal for changes in system topology or telemetry.  ERCOT shall accept corrections to the submittal if the requestor has corrected any deficiencies by the required submittal date specified in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall post any changes to a NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs and DCTOs within three Business Days of accepting corrections.
(11)	On receipt of the information set forth in Section 3.10.7, ERCOT System Modeling Requirements, ERCOT shall review the information and notify the requestor of any required modifications.  ERCOT may, at its discretion, require changes or more details regarding the work plan for any new or relocated facilities.  The requestor shall notify ERCOT and any other affected Entities as soon as practicable of any ERCOT requested changes to the work plan.  The requestor shall consult with other Entities likely to be affected and shall revise the work plan, following any necessary or appropriate discussions with ERCOT and other affected Entities.  ERCOT shall approve or reject the request, including any revisions made by the requestor, within 15 days of receipt of the complete request and any revisions.  Following ERCOT approval, ERCOT shall publish a summary of the revised NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (11) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(11)	On receipt of the information set forth in Section 3.10.7, ERCOT System Modeling Requirements, ERCOT shall review the information and notify the requestor of any required modifications.  ERCOT may, at its discretion, require changes or more details regarding the work plan for any new or relocated facilities.  The requestor shall notify ERCOT and any other affected Entities as soon as practicable of any ERCOT requested changes to the work plan.  The requestor shall consult with other Entities likely to be affected and shall revise the work plan, following any necessary or appropriate discussions with ERCOT and other affected Entities.  ERCOT shall approve or reject the request, including any revisions made by the requestor, within 15 days of receipt of the complete request and any revisions.  Following ERCOT approval, ERCOT shall publish a summary of the revised NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs and DCTOs.
3.10.1	Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes
(1)	ERCOT shall perform periodic updates to the Network Operations Model.  Market Participants may provide Network Operations Model updates to ERCOT to implement planned transmission and Resource construction one year before the required submittal date below.  TSPs and Resource Entities must timely submit Network Operations Model changes pursuant to the schedule in this Section to be included in the updates.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT shall perform periodic updates to the Network Operations Model.  Market Participants may provide Network Operations Model updates to ERCOT to implement planned transmission and Resource construction one year before the required submittal date below.  TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities must timely submit Network Operations Model changes pursuant to the schedule in this Section to be included in the updates.
(2)	For a facility addition, revision, or deletion to be included in any Network Operations Model update, all technical modeling information must be submitted to ERCOT pursuant to the ERCOT NOMCR process or the applicable Resource Registration process for Resource Entities.  If a Resource Entity is required to follow the generation interconnection process for a new Generation Resource or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) as described in Planning Guide Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, it must meet the conditions of Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, before submitting a change to the Network Operations Model to reflect the new Generation Resource or SOG.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(2)	For a facility addition, revision, or deletion to be included in any Network Operations Model update, all technical modeling information must be submitted to ERCOT pursuant to the ERCOT NOMCR process or the applicable Resource Registration process for Resource Entities.  If a Resource Entity is required to follow the generation interconnection process for a new Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS) as described in Planning Guide Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, it must meet the conditions of Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, before submitting a change to the Network Operations Model to reflect the new Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or SOESS.
(3)	TSPs and Resource Entities shall submit all Network Operations Model updates that are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (4) below by the applicable deadline to submit information to ERCOT for the target date of inclusion in the production model detailed in the table below.  ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model according to the following table:
Deadline to Submit Information to ERCOT 
Note 1	Model Complete and Available for Test 
Note 2	Updated Network Operations Model Testing Complete
Note 3
Paragraph (6)	Update Network Operations Model Production Environment	Target Physical Equipment included in Production Model 
Note 4
Jan 1	Feb 15	March 15	April 1	Month of April
Feb 1	March 15	April 15	May 1	Month of May
March 1	April 15	May 15	June 1	Month of June
April 1	May 15	June 15	July 1	Month of July
May 1	June 15	July 15	August 1	Month of August
June 1	July 15	August 15	September 1	Month of September
July 1	August 15	September 15	October 1	Month of October
August 1	September 15	October 15	November 1	Month of November
September 1	October 15	November 15	December 1	Month of December
October 1	November 15	December 15	January 1	Month of January (the next year)
November 1	December 15	January 15	February 1	Month of February (the next year)
December 1	January 15	February 15	March 1	Month of March (the next year)
Notes: 
1.	TSP and Resource Entity data submissions complete per the NOMCR process or other ERCOT-prescribed process applicable to Resource Entities for inclusion in next update period.
2.	Network Operations Model data changes and preliminary fidelity test complete by using the Network Operations Model test facility described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities.  A test version of the Redacted Network Operations Model will be posted to the MIS Secure Area for Market Participants and Network Operations Model to the MIS Certified Area for TSPs as described in paragraph (9) of Section 3.10.4, for market review and further testing by Market Participants.
3.	Testing of the Redacted Network Operations Model by Market Participants and Network Operations Model by TSPs is complete and ERCOT begins the Energy Management System (EMS) testing prior to placing the new model into the production environment.
4.	Updates include changes starting at this date and ending within the same month.  The schedule for Operations Model load dates will be published by ERCOT on the ERCOT website.

[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities for NPRR857:]
(3)	TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities shall submit all Network Operations Model updates that are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (4) below by the applicable deadline to submit information to ERCOT for the target date of inclusion in the production model detailed in the table below.  ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model according to the following table:
Deadline to Submit Information to ERCOT 
Note 1	Model Complete and Available for Test 
Note 2	Updated Network Operations Model Testing Complete
Note 3
Paragraph (6)	Update Network Operations Model Production Environment	Target Physical Equipment included in Production Model 
Note 4
January 1	February 15	March 15	April 1	Month of April
February 1	March 15	April 15	May 1	Month of May
March 1	April 15	May 15	June 1	Month of June
April 1	May 15	June 15	July 1	Month of July
May 1	June 15	July 15	August 1	Month of August
June 1	July 15	August 15	September 1	Month of September
July 1	August 15	September 15	October 1	Month of October
August 1	September 15	October 15	November 1	Month of November
September 1	October 15	November 15	December 1	Month of December
October 1	November 15	December 15	January 1	Month of January (the next year)
November 1	December 15	January 15	February 1	Month of February (the next year)
December 1	January 15	February 15	March 1	Month of March (the next year)
Notes: 
1.	TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity data submissions complete per the NOMCR process or other ERCOT-prescribed process applicable to Resource Entities for inclusion in next update period.
2.	Network Operations Model data changes and preliminary fidelity test complete by using the Network Operations Model test facility described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities.  A test version of the Redacted Network Operations Model will be posted to the MIS Secure Area for Market Participants and Network Operations Model to the MIS Certified Area for TSPs as described in paragraph (9) of Section 3.10.4, for market review and further testing by Market Participants.
3.	Testing of the Redacted Network Operations Model by Market Participants and Network Operations Model by TSPs is complete and ERCOT begins the Energy Management System (EMS) testing prior to placing the new model into the production environment.
4.	Updates include changes starting at this date and ending within the same month.  The schedule for Operations Model load dates will be published by ERCOT on the ERCOT website.
(4)	Resource Entities shall submit complete initial Resource Registration data for inclusion in the ERCOT Network Operations Model as described in paragraph (6) of Planning Guide Section 6.8.1, Resource Registration, by the applicable deadline for the Resource Entity to submit complete information to ERCOT for the target date of inclusion in the production model detailed in the table below.  ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model according to the following table:
Deadline for Resource Entity to Submit Complete Information to ERCOT 
Note 1	Deadline for Resource Registration Data to Meet Criteria for ERCOT Acceptance
Note 2	Model Complete and Available for Test 
Note 3	Updated Network Operations Model Testing Complete
Note 4
Paragraph (6)	Update Network Operations Model Production Environment	Target Physical Equipment included in Production Model 
Note 5
December 1	January 1	February 15	March 15	April 1	Month of April
January 1	February 1	March 15	April 15	May 1	Month of May
February 1	March 1	April 15	May 15	June 1	Month of June
March 1	April 1	May 15	June 15	July 1	Month of July
April 1	May 1	June 15	July 15	August 1	Month of August
May 1	June 1	July 15	August 15	September 1	Month of September
June 1	July 1	August 15	September 15	October 1	Month of October
July 1	August 1	September 15	October 15	November 1	Month of November
August 1	September 1	October 15	November 15	December 1	Month of December
September 1	October 1	November 15	December 15	January 1	Month of January (the next year)
October 1	November 1	December 15	January 15	February 1	Month of February (the next year)
November 1	December 1	January 15	February 15	March 1	Month of March (the next year)
Notes:

1.	The date listed in this column shall serve as the deadline for initial submission of complete Resource Registration data to ERCOT, as described in paragraph (2) of Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process.  ERCOT may work with the Resource Entity to resolve any data quality issues found in the Resource Registration data for up to one month after the submission date that corresponds to the date listed in this column.  If ERCOT determines any Resource Registration data deficiencies are not sufficiently resolved by the end of the one-month period, then that submission shall be treated as a new initial submission for the following month.  
2.	Resource Entity data submission must be deemed complete by ERCOT with all data deficiencies resolved per the process described in Planning Guide Section 6.8.2 by this date.
3.	Network Operations Model data changes and preliminary fidelity test complete by using the Network Operations Model test facility described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.4.  A test version of the Redacted Network Operations Model will be posted to the MIS Secure Area for Market Participants and Network Operations Model to the MIS Certified Area for TSPs as described in paragraph (9) of Section 3.10.4, for market review and further testing by Market Participants.
4.	Testing of the Redacted Network Operations Model by Market Participants and Network Operations Model by TSPs is complete and ERCOT begins the EMS testing prior to placing the new model into the production environment.
5.	Updates include changes starting at this date and ending within the same month.  The schedule for Operations Model load dates will be published by ERCOT on the ERCOT website.
(5)	ERCOT shall only approve energization requests when the Transmission Element is satisfactorily modeled in the Network Operations Model.  
(6)	Changes to an existing NOMCR that modify only Inter-Control Center Communications Protocol (ICCP) data object names shall be provided 15 days prior to the Network Operations Model load date.  NOMCR modifications containing only ICCP data object names shall not be subject to interim update reporting to the Independent Market Monitor (IMM) and Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) (reference Section 3.10.4), according to the following:
NOMCR that contains ICCP Data and is submitted …	ERCOT shall …	Subject to IMM & PUC Reporting
Beyond 90 days of the energization date	Allow modification of only ICCP data for an existing NOMCR	No
Between 90 and 15 days prior to the scheduled database load.	Allow modification of only ICCP data for an existing NOMCR 	No
Less than 15 days before scheduled database load.	Require a new NOMCR to be submitted containing the ICCP data 	Yes
3.10.2	Annual Planning Model 
(1)	For each of the next six years, ERCOT shall develop models for annual planning purposes that contain, as much as practicable, information consistent with the Network Operations Model.  The “Annual Planning Model” for each of the next six years is a model of the ERCOT power system (created, approved, posted, and updated regularly by ERCOT) as it is expected to operate during peak Load conditions for the corresponding future year.
(2)	By October 15th of each year, ERCOT shall update, for each of the next six years, the ERCOT Planning Model and post it to the MIS Secure Area
(3)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs and/or Distribution Service Provider (DSPs) and all appropriate Market Participants, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, the transmission model used in transmission planning.  ERCOT shall provide model information through the use of the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) and North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) sponsored CIM and web-based Extensible Markup Language (XML) communications or Power System Simulator for Engineering (PSS/E) format.
(4)	ERCOT shall post the schedule for updating transmission information on the MIS Secure Area.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs and/or Distribution Service Providers (DSPs) the schedule for updating transmission information.
(5)	ERCOT shall coordinate updates to the Annual Planning Model with the Network Operations Model to ensure consistency of data within and between the Annual Planning Model and Network Operations Model to the extent practicable.
3.10.3	CRR Network Model
(1)	ERCOT shall develop models for Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auctions that contain, as much as practicable, information consistent with the Network Operations Model.  Names of Transmission Elements in the Network Operations Model and the CRR Network Model must be identical for the same physical equipment. 
(2)	ERCOT shall verify that the names of Hub Buses and Electrical Buses used to describe the same device in any Hub are identically named in both the Network Operations Model and the CRR Network Model. 
(3)	Each CRR Network Model must include:
(a)	A system-wide diagram including all modeled Transmission Elements (except those within Private Use Networks) and Resource Nodes;
(b)	Station one-line diagrams for all Settlement Points (indicating the Settlement Point that the Electrical Bus is a part of) and including all Hub Buses used to calculate Hub prices (if applicable), except those within Private Use Networks;
(c)	Generation Resource locations;
[NPRR1246:  Replace item (c) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(c)	Generation Resource and ESR locations;
(d)	Transmission Elements;
(e)	Transmission impedances;
(f)	Transmission ratings, excluding Relay Loadability Ratings;
(g)	Contingency lists;
(h)	Data inputs used in the calculation of Dynamic Ratings, and 
(i)	Other relevant assumptions and inputs used for the CRR Network Model.
(4)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs and/or DSPs and all appropriate Market Participants, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, the CRR Network Model.  ERCOT shall provide model information through the use of the EPRI and NERC-sponsored CIM and web based XML communications or PSS/E format.
3.10.3.1	Process for Managing Network Operations Model Updates for Point of Interconnection Bus Changes, Resource Retirements and Deletion of DC Tie Load Zones 
(1)	Following the permanent change in Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB) of all Resources associated with a Resource Node, ERCOT shall retain the associated Settlement Point in the Network Operations Model at its existing location, an electrically similar location, or until all outstanding CRRs associated with that Settlement Point have expired as determined in accordance with the Other Binding Document, “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”  Following the retirement of all Resources associated with a Resource Node, ERCOT shall move the Resource Node to a proxy Electrical Bus.  The proxy Electrical Bus will be selected by finding the nearest energized Electrical Bus with the least impedance equipment between the existing Resource Node and the proxy Electrical Bus.  For purposes of the CRR Auction model for calendar periods that are prior to the expiration date of all CRRs associated with the Settlement Point, the Settlement Point will continue to be available as a sink or source for CRR Auction transaction submittals.  For calendar periods that are beyond the expiration date of all CRRs associated with the Settlement Point, the Settlement Point will not be available for transaction submittals in the associated CRR Auctions.  The Settlement Point will be removed from the Network Operations Model once all associated CRRs have expired.
(2)	When a Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) is to be permanently removed from service, ERCOT will delete the associated DC Tie Load Zone from the Network Operations Model after all outstanding CRRs associated with that DC Tie Load Zone have expired.  The DC Tie Load Zone will continue to be available as a sink or source Settlement Point for transaction submittals in CRR Auctions for calendar periods that are prior to the scheduled deletion date of the DC Tie Load Zone; however, the DC Tie Load Zone will no longer be an available Settlement Point for transaction submittals in CRR Auctions for calendar periods that are after the scheduled deletion date of the DC Tie Load Zone.
3.10.4	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall design, install, operate, and maintain its systems and establish applicable related processes to meet the State Estimator Standards for Transmission Elements that under typical system conditions potentially affect the calculation of Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) as described in Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards, and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Standards.  ERCOT shall post all documents relating to the State Estimator Standards on the MIS Secure Area.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall design, install, operate, and maintain its systems and establish applicable related processes to meet the State Estimator Standards for Transmission Elements that under typical system conditions potentially affect the calculation of Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) as described in Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards, and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Standards.  ERCOT shall post all documents relating to the State Estimator Standards on the MIS Secure Area, except where otherwise stated in Section 3.10.9.6, Telemetry and State Estimator Performance Monitoring.
(2)	During Real-Time, ERCOT shall calculate LMPs and take remedial actions to ensure that actual flow on a given Transmission Element is less than the Normal Rating and any calculated flow due to a contingency is less than the applicable Emergency Rating and 15-Minute Rating.
(3)	ERCOT shall install Network Operations Model test facilities that will accommodate execution of a test Real-Time sequence and preliminary test LMP calculator to demonstrate the correct operation of new Network Operations Models prior to releasing the model to Market Participants for detail testing and verification.  The Network Operations Model test facilities support power flow and contingency analyses to test the data set representation of a proposed transmission model update and simulate LMP calculations using typical test data.
(4)	ERCOT shall install EMS test and simulation facilities that accommodate execution of the State Estimator and LMP calculator, respectively.  These facilities will be used to conduct tests prior to placing a new model into ERCOT’s production environment to verify the new model’s accuracy.  The EMS test facilities allow a potential model to be tested before replacing the current production environment model.  The EMS test and simulation facilities must perform Real-Time security analysis to test a proposed transmission model before replacing the current production environment model. The EMS State Estimator test facilities must have Real-Time ICCP links to test the state estimation function using actual Real-Time conditions.  The EMS LMP test facilities must accept data uploads from the production environment providing Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Resource offers, and telemetry via ICCP.  If the production data are unavailable, ERCOT may employ a data simulation tool or process to develop test data sets for the LMP test facilities.  For TSPs, ERCOT shall acquire model comparison software that will show all differences between subsequent versions of the Network Operations Model and shall make this information available to TSPs only within one week following test completion.  For non-TSP Market Participants, ERCOT shall post the differences within one week following test completion between subsequent versions of the Redacted Network Operations Model on the MIS Secure Area.  This comparison shall indicate differences in device parameters, missing or new devices, and status changes.
(5)	When implementing Transmission Element changes, ERCOT shall correct errors uncovered during testing that are due to submission of inaccurate information.  Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide reasonably accurate information at the time of the original submission.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	When implementing Transmission Element changes, ERCOT shall correct errors uncovered during testing that are due to submission of inaccurate information.  Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide reasonably accurate information at the time of the original submission.  
(6)	ERCOT may update the model on an interim basis, outside of the timeline described in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes, for the correction of temporary configuration changes in a system restoration situation, such as after a storm, or correction of impedances and ratings.  
(7)	Interim updates to the Network Operations Model caused by unintentional inconsistencies of the model with the physical transmission grid may be made.  If an interim update is implemented, ERCOT shall report changes to the PUCT Staff and the IMM.  ERCOT shall provide Notice via electronic means to all Market Participants and post the Notice on the MIS Secure Area detailing the changed model information and the reason for the interim update within two Business Days following the report to PUCT Staff and the IMM.
(8)	A TSP and Resource Entity, with ERCOT’s assistance, shall validate its portion of the Network Operations Model according to the timeline provided in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall provide TSPs access, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, to an environment of the ERCOT EMS where the Network Operations Model and the results of the Real-Time State Estimator are available for review and analysis within five minutes of the Real-Time solution.  This environment is provided as a tool to TSPs to perform power flow studies, contingency analyses and validation of State Estimator results.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(8)	TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities, with ERCOT’s assistance, shall validate their portion of the Network Operations Model according to the timeline provided in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall provide TSPs access, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, to an environment of the ERCOT EMS where the Network Operations Model and the results of the Real-Time State Estimator are available for review and analysis within five minutes of the Real-Time solution.  This environment is provided as a tool to TSPs to perform power flow studies, contingency analyses and validation of State Estimator results.  
(9)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII, the Network Operations Model used to manage the reliability of the transmission system as well as proposed Network Operations Models to be implemented at a future date.  ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area the Redacted Network Operations Model, consistent with the requirements regarding release of ECEII, as well as proposed Redacted Network Operations Models to be implemented at a future date.  ERCOT shall provide model information through the use of the EPRI and NERC-sponsored CIM and web-based XML communications.
3.10.5	TSP Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP shall design, implement, operate, and maintain its systems to meet the requirements of Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements, for measurements facilitating the observability of the Electrical Buses used for Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  However, there is no obligation to re-construct or retrofit already existing installations except as shown to be needed in order to comply with Section 3.10.7.5 and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements.  
(2)	TSPs shall add telemetry to equipment it owns and directly operates and controls at ERCOT’s request to maintain observability and redundancy requirements as specified herein, and under Section 3.10.7.5.  Nothing in this subsection prohibits a TSP from adding telemetry to equipment it does not own but directly operates and controls.  ERCOT shall request such additions when a lack of data telemetry has caused, or can be demonstrated to result in, inaccuracies between Real-Time measurements and modeling outcomes that could result in incorrect LMP prices or potential reliability problems.
(3)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT planned construction information, including Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) application milestone dates if applicable, all of which shall be updated according to a schedule established by ERCOT.  
(4)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT project status updates of Transmission Facilities that are part of an Reliability Must-Run (RMR) or Must Run Alternative (MRA) exit strategy corresponding to a specific RMR or MRA Agreement that has not been terminated, which shall be updated by the first Business Day of each month, noting any acceleration or delay in planned completion date.
(5)	A QSE must receive approval from a TSP prior to using the TSP’s telemetry as part of a Generation Resource’s Bulk Electric System protection scheme or for generation control.  If a TSP has approved a QSE’s use of the TSP’s telemetry, the TSP shall inform the QSE of any telemetry changes with reasonable notice prior to the change or where prior notice is not possible as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, including discontinuation of the TSP’s provision of such telemetry, and the timeline for the changes.
[NPRR857:  Replace Section 3.10.5 above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
3.10.5	TSP and DCTO Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP and DCTO shall design, implement, operate, and maintain its systems to meet the requirements of Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements, for measurements facilitating the observability of the Electrical Buses used for Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  However, there is no obligation to re-construct or retrofit already existing installations except as shown to be needed in order to comply with Section 3.10.7.5 and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements.  
(2)	Each TSP and DCTO shall add telemetry to equipment it owns and directly operates and controls at ERCOT’s request to maintain observability and redundancy requirements as specified herein, and under Section 3.10.7.5.  Nothing in this subsection prohibits a TSP from adding telemetry to equipment it does not own but directly operates and controls.  ERCOT shall request such additions when a lack of data telemetry has caused, or can be demonstrated to result in, inaccuracies between Real-Time measurements and modeling outcomes that could result in incorrect LMP prices or potential reliability problems.
(3)	Each TSP and DCTO shall provide to ERCOT planned construction information, including Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) application milestone dates if applicable, all of which shall be updated according to a schedule established by ERCOT.  
(4)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT project status updates of Transmission Facilities that are part of an Reliability Must-Run (RMR) or Must Run Alternative (MRA) exit strategy corresponding to a specific RMR or MRA Agreement that has not been terminated, which shall be updated by the first Business Day of each month, noting any acceleration or delay in planned completion date.
(5)	A QSE must receive approval from a TSP prior to using the TSP’s telemetry as part of a Generation Resource’s Bulk Electric System protection scheme or for generation control.  If a TSP has approved a QSE’s use of the TSP’s telemetry, the TSP shall inform the QSE of any telemetry changes with reasonable notice prior to the change or where prior notice is not possible as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, including discontinuation of the TSP’s provision of such telemetry, and the timeline for the changes.
3.10.6	QSE and Resource Entity Responsibilities
(1)	Resource Entities shall provide Resource Registration data pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, to ERCOT and to TSPs upon request.  The Resource Registration data will contain information describing each Generation Resource, SOG, and Load Resource that it represents under Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(1)	Resource Entities shall provide Resource Registration data pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, to ERCOT and to TSPs upon request.  The Resource Registration data will contain information describing each Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, SOESS, and Load Resource that it represents under Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads.
(2)	QSEs shall ensure availability of telemetry to generation and transmission equipment its Resource Entity owns at ERCOT’s request to maintain observability and redundancy requirements as specified herein, and under Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements.  ERCOT shall request such additions when a lack of data telemetry has caused, or can be demonstrated to result in, inaccuracies between Real-Time measurements and modeling outcomes that could result in incorrect LMP prices or potential reliability problems.
(3) 	For each Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Resource Entities shall provide ERCOT the following temperature data: 
(a) 	Cold weather temperature limits:
(i) 	Minimum historical ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource has operated without a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure due to cold weather after at least one complete winter Peak Load Season following the Resource’s Initial Synchronization date based on the previous five calendar years of historical data; and
(ii) 	Minimum historical ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource has operated without experiencing a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its winter Seasonal net maximum rating due to cold weather after at least one complete winter Peak Load Season following the Resource’s Initial Synchronization date based on the previous five calendar years of historical data; and
(iii)  	At least one of the following:
(A)	Minimum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource was designed to operate without a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its winter Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating; or 
(B)	Minimum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource can operate without a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its winter Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating determined by an engineering analysis; and
(iv)  	At least one of the following: 
(A) 	Minimum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource was designed to operate without a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure; or
(B)	Minimum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource can operate without a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure determined by an engineering analysis.
(b) 	Hot weather temperature limits:
(i)	Maximum historical ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource has operated without experiencing a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure due to hot weather after at least one complete summer Peak Load Season following the Resource’s Initial Synchronization date based on the previous five years of historical data; and
(ii)	Maximum historical ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource has operated without experiencing a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its summer Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating due to hot weather after at least one complete summer Peak Load Season following the Resource’s Initial Synchronization date based on the previous five calendar years of historical data; and 
(iii)	At least one of the following: 
(A)	Maximum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource was designed to operate without a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its summer Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating; or 
(B)	Maximum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource can operate without a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its summer Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating, determined by an engineering analysis; and
(iv)	At least one of the following:
(A)	Maximum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource was designed to operate without a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure; or 
(B) 	Maximum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource can operate without a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure, determined by an engineering analysis.
(4)  	Each Resource Entity shall review at least annually the temperatures described in paragraphs (3)(a)(i), (3)(a)(ii), (3)(b)(i), and (3)(b)(ii) above and shall update each Resource’s Registration data within 30 days of identifying any change in these temperatures.
(5)	Each Resource Entity shall review at least once every seven years the temperatures described in paragraphs (3)(a)(iii), (3)(a)(iv), (3)(b)(iii), and (3)(b)(iv) above and shall update each Resource’s Registration data within 30 days of identifying any change in these temperatures.
(6)	Resource Entities shall update each Generation Resource’s alternate fuel information within 30 days of any changes to the alternate fuel information.
3.10.7	ERCOT System Modeling Requirements
(1)	The following subsections contain the fidelity requirements for the ERCOT Network Operations Model. 
3.10.7.1	Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters
(1)	ERCOT, each TSP, and each Resource Entity shall coordinate to define each Transmission Element such that the TSP’s control center operational model and ERCOT’s Network Operations Model are consistent.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT and each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall coordinate to define each Transmission Element such that the TSP’s control center operational model and ERCOT’s Network Operations Model are consistent.
(2)	Each Transmission Element must have a unique identifier using a consistent naming convention used between ERCOT, Resource Entities, and TSPs.  ERCOT shall develop the naming convention with the assistance of the TSP and the approval of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).  In addition to the Network Operations Model releases described in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Change Requests, ERCOT shall provide all names and parameters of all Transmission Elements to Market Participants posted on MIS Secure Area by 0600 each day.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Each Transmission Element must have a unique identifier using a consistent naming convention used between ERCOT, Resource Entities, TSPs, and DCTOs.  ERCOT shall develop the naming convention with the assistance of the TSP and the approval of TAC.  In addition to the Network Operations Model releases described in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Change Requests, ERCOT shall provide all names and parameters of all Transmission Elements to Market Participants posted on MIS Secure Area by 0600 each day.
(3)	If the responsible TSP submits a NOMCR for non-operational changes, such as name changes for Transmission Elements, ERCOT shall implement the request. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	If the responsible TSP or DCTO submits a NOMCR for non-operational changes, such as name changes for Transmission Elements, ERCOT shall implement the request.
(4)	Resource Entities shall provide the data requested in this Section through the Resource Registration data provided pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(4)	Each Resource Entity shall provide the data requested in this Section through the Resource Registration data provided pursuant to relevant authorities, including Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process.

[NPRR1133:  Insert paragraph (5) below upon system implementation of NPRR857:]
(5)	Each DC Tie Facility owner shall provide the model data needed to accurately reflect the physical characteristics of the DC Tie Facility in ERCOT’s Network Operations Model to its DCTO, and the DCTO shall submit the data to ERCOT.  The DC Tie Facility owner is responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data submitted to ERCOT through its DCTO.
3.10.7.1.1	Transmission Lines
(1)	ERCOT shall model each transmission line that operates in excess of 60 kV.
(2)	For each of its transmission lines operated as part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid, each TSP and if applicable, Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT with the following information consistent with the ratings methodology prescribed in the ERCOT Operating Guides:
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	For each of its transmission lines operated as part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid, each TSP, DCTO, and if applicable, Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT with the following information consistent with the ratings methodology prescribed in the ERCOT Operating Guides:
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	Transmission Element name;
(d)	Line impedance;
(e)	Normal Rating, Emergency Rating, 15-Minute Rating, Conductor/Transformer 2-Hour Rating, and Relay Loadability Rating; and 
(f)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(3)	The TSP and Resource Entity may submit special transfer limits and stability limits for secure and reliable grid operations for ERCOT approval.  ERCOT has sole decision-making authority and responsibility to determine the limits to be applied in grid operations.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	The TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity may submit special transfer limits and stability limits for secure and reliable grid operations for ERCOT approval.  ERCOT has sole decision-making authority and responsibility to determine the limits to be applied in grid operations.
(4)	The TSP and Resource Entity may implement protective relay and control systems and set values appropriate to de-energize faulted equipment and meet the TSP and Resource Entity obligations for public or employee safety, and when necessary to prevent in-service or premature equipment failure consistent with Good Utility Practice and accepted industry standards.  The TSP and Resource Entity shall include those limits as Relay Loadability Ratings when providing ERCOT with ratings or proposed transfer limits.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(4)	The TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity may implement protective relay and control systems and set values appropriate to de-energize faulted equipment and meet the TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity obligations for public or employee safety, and when necessary to prevent in-service or premature equipment failure consistent with Good Utility Practice and accepted industry standards.  The TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall include those limits as Relay Loadability Ratings when providing ERCOT with ratings or proposed transfer limits.
(5)	The Network Operations Model must use rating categories for Transmission Elements as defined in the ERCOT Operating Guides.
3.10.7.1.2	Transmission Buses
(1)	ERCOT shall model each Electrical Bus that operates as part of the ERCOT Transmission Grid in excess of 60 kV and that is required to model switching stations or transmission Loads.
(2)	Each TSP and if applicable, Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters:
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Each TSP, DCTO, and if applicable, Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters:
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	The Transmission Element name;
(d)	The substation name; 
(e)	A description of all transmission circuits that may be connected through breakers or switches; and
(f)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(3)	To accommodate the Outage Scheduler, the TSP and Resource Entity may define a separate name and Transmission Element for any Electrical Bus that can be physically separated by a manual switch or breaker within a substation. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	To accommodate the Outage Scheduler, the TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity may define a separate name and Transmission Element for any Electrical Bus that can be physically separated by a manual switch or breaker within a substation. 
3.10.7.1.3	Transmission Breakers and Switches
(1)	ERCOT’s Network Operations Model must include all transmission breakers and switches, the operation of which may cause a change in the flow on transmission lines or Electrical Buses.  Breakers and switches may only be connected to defined Electrical Buses.
(2)	Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters: 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters: 
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	The Transmission Element name;
(d)	The substation name;
(e)	Connectivity; 
(f)	Normal status;
(g)	Synchronism Check Relay phase angle limits that are applied to operator-initiated, non-automated control actions of TSP-owned transmission breakers; and
[NPRR857:  Replace item (g) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities for NPRR857:]
(g)	Synchronism Check Relay phase angle limits that are applied to operator-initiated, non-automated control actions of TSP-owned or DCTO-owned transmission breakers; and
(h)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(3)	ERCOT shall develop methods to accurately model changes in transmission line loading resulting from Load rollover schemes transferring more than ten MW.  This may include modeling distribution circuit breakers, dead line sensing, or other methods that signal when the Load should be transferred from one transmission line to another transmission line.  ERCOT may employ heuristic rule sets for all manual Load transfers and for automated transfers where feasible.  ERCOT application software is required to model the effects of automatic or manual schemes in the field transfer Load under line outage conditions.  Each TSP and as applicable, Resource Entity, shall define the Load rollover schemes under Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, and furnish this information to ERCOT.  Transmission field (right-of-way) switches must be connected to a named Electrical Bus and be included in the Network Operations Model.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	ERCOT shall develop methods to accurately model changes in transmission line loading resulting from Load rollover schemes transferring more than ten MW.  This may include modeling distribution circuit breakers, dead line sensing, or other methods that signal when the Load should be transferred from one transmission line to another transmission line.  ERCOT may employ heuristic rule sets for all manual Load transfers and for automated transfers where feasible.  ERCOT application software is required to model the effects of automatic or manual schemes in the field transfer Load under line outage conditions.  Each TSP and as applicable, each DCTO and Resource Entity, shall define the Load rollover schemes under Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, and furnish this information to ERCOT.  Transmission field (right-of-way) switches must be connected to a named Electrical Bus and be included in the Network Operations Model.
3.10.7.1.4	Transmission, Main Power Transformers (MPTs) and Generation Resource Step-Up Transformers
[NPRR1246:  Replace Section 3.10.7.1.4 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
3.10.7.1.4	Transmission, Main Power Transformers (MPTs) and Generation Step-Up Transformers
(1)	ERCOT shall model all transformers with a nominal low side (i.e., secondary, nottertiary) voltage above 60 kV.  
(2)	For Generation Resources, ERCOT shall model all Main Power Transformers (MPTs) and Generator Step-Up (GSU) transformers greater than ten MVA to provide for accurate representation of generator voltage control capability including the capability to accept a system operator entry of a specific no-load tap position, or if changeable under Load, accept telemetry of the current tap position.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	For Generation Resources and ESRs, ERCOT shall model all Main Power Transformers (MPTs) and Generator Step-Up (GSU) transformers greater than ten MVA to provide for accurate representation of generator voltage control capability including the capability to accept a system operator entry of a specific no-load tap position, or if changeable under Load, accept telemetry of the current tap position.
(3)	Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with information to accurately describe each transformer in the Network Operations Model including any tertiary Load as required by ERCOT.  Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters: 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with information to accurately describe each transformer in the Network Operations Model including any tertiary Load as required by ERCOT.  Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters: 
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	The Transmission Element name;
(d)	The substation name;
(e)	Winding ratings, including Normal Rating, Emergency Rating, 15-Minute Rating, Conductor/Transformer 2-Hour Rating, and Relay Loadability Rating;
(f)	Connectivity; 
(g)	Transformer parameters, including all tap parameters; and
(h)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(4)	The Resource Entity shall provide parameters for each MPT to ERCOT as part of the Resource Registration data pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process.  ERCOT shall provide the information to TSPs.  Each TSP shall coordinate with the operators of the Resources connected to their respective systems to establish the proper transformer tap positions (no-load taps) and the equipment owner shall report any changes to ERCOT using the NOMCR process or other ERCOT prescribed means.  Each Resource Entity and each TSP shall schedule generation Outages at mutually agreeable times to implement tap position changes when necessary.  If mutual agreement cannot be reached, then ERCOT shall decide where to set the tap position to be implemented by the Resource Entity at the next generation Outage, considering expected impact on system security, future Outage plans, and participants.  TSPs shall provide ERCOT and Market Participants with notice in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities, (except for emergency) prior to the tap position change implementation date.  
(5)	ERCOT shall post to the MIS Secure Area information regarding all transformers represented in the Network Operations Model.
3.10.7.1.5	Reactors, Capacitors, and other Reactive Controlled Sources
(1)	ERCOT shall model all controlled reactive devices.  Each Market Participant shall provide ERCOT with complete information on each device’s capabilities and normal switching schema.
(2)	Each Market Participant shall provide ERCOT with the following information, subject to the naming conventions in Section 3.10.7.1, Modeling of Transmission Elements and Parameters:
(a)	Equipment owner(s);
(b)	Equipment operator(s);
(c)	The Transmission Element name;
(d)	The substation name;
(e)	Voltage or time switched on;
(f)	Voltage or time switched off;
(g)	Associated switching device name;
(h)	Connectivity; 
(i)	Nominal voltage and associated capacitance or reactance; and
(j)	Other data necessary to model Transmission Element(s).
(3)	The ERCOT Operating Guides must include parameters for standard reactor and capacitor switching plans for use in the Network Operations Model.  ERCOT shall model the devices under Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities, in all applicable ERCOT applications and systems.  ERCOT shall provide copies of the switching plan to the Market Participants via the MIS Secure Area.  Any change in TSP guidelines or switching plan must be provided to ERCOT before implementation (except for emergency).  Any change in guidelines or switching plan must be provided in accordance with the NOMCR process or other ERCOT-prescribed process.
3.10.7.2	Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT and its interconnecting TSP with information describing each of its Generation Resources, SOGs, and Load Resources connected to the ERCOT System.  All Transmission Generation Resources (TGRs), Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs), and the non-TSP owned MPTs greater than ten MVA, must be modeled to provide equivalent generation injections to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall coordinate the modeling of Generation Resources, Private Use Networks, and Load Resources with their owners to ensure consistency between TSP models and ERCOT models.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT and its interconnecting TSP with information describing each of its Generation Resources, ESRs, SOGs, SOESSs, and Load Resources connected to the ERCOT System.  All Transmission Generation Resources (TGRs), Transmission ESRs (TESRs), Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs), Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage Systems (SOTESSs), and the non-TSP MPTs greater than ten MVA, must be modeled to provide equivalent generation injections to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall coordinate the modeling of Generation Resources, ESRs, Private Use Networks, and Load Resources with their owners to ensure consistency between TSP models and ERCOT models.
(2)	Each Resource Entity representing either a Load Resource or an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR) shall provide ERCOT and, as applicable, its interconnecting DSP and TSP, with information describing each such Resource as specified in Section 3.7.1.2, Load Resource Parameters, and any additional information and telemetry as required by ERCOT, in accordance with the timelines set forth in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  ERCOT shall coordinate the modeling of ALRs with Resource Entities.  ERCOT shall coordinate with representatives of the Resource Entity to map Load Resources to their appropriate Load in the Network Operations Model.
(3)	Each Resource Entity representing a Distribution Generation Resource (DGR) or Distribution Energy Storage Resource (DESR) that is registered with ERCOT pursuant to Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, shall provide ERCOT, its interconnecting DSP, and the TSP that interconnects the DSP to the transmission system with information describing each of its DGR or DESR facilities, and additional information and telemetry as required by ERCOT and the interconnecting DSP.  ERCOT shall coordinate with representatives of the Resource Entity to represent the registered DGR or DESR facilities at their appropriate Electrical Bus in the Network Operations Model.
(4)	Each Resource Entity representing a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) facility that is registered with ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (5) of Section 16.5 shall provide ERCOT, its interconnecting DSP, and the TSP that interconnects the DSP to the transmission system with information describing each of its SODG facilities, and additional information and telemetry as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT shall coordinate with representatives of the Resource Entity to map registered SODG facilities to their appropriate Load in the Network Operations Model.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	Each Resource Entity representing a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) or Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS) facility that is registered with ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (5) of Section 16.5 shall provide ERCOT, its interconnecting DSP, and the TSP that interconnects the DSP to the transmission system with information describing each of its SODG or SODESS facilities, and additional information and telemetry as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT shall coordinate with representatives of the Resource Entity to map registered SODG or SODESS facilities to their appropriate Load in the Network Operations Model.
(5)	Each Resource Entity representing a Split Generation Resource shall provide information to ERCOT and TSPs describing an individual Split Generation Resource for its share of the generation facility to be represented in the Network Operations Model in accordance with Section 3.8, Special Considerations.  The Split Generation Resource must be modeled as connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid on the low side of the generation facility MPT.  
(6)	ERCOT shall create a DC Tie Resource to represent an equivalent generation injection to represent the flow into the ERCOT Transmission Grid from operation of DC Ties.  The actual injection flow on the DC Tie from telemetry provided by the facility owner(s) is the DC Tie Resource output. 
(7)	TSPs shall provide ERCOT with information describing all transmission Load connections on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Individual Load connections may be combined, at the discretion of ERCOT, with other Load connections on the same transmission line to represent a Model Load to facilitate state estimation of Loads that do not telemeter Load measurements.  ERCOT shall define “Model Loads”, which may be one or more combined Loads, for use in its Network Operations Model.  A Model Load cannot be used to represent Load connections that are in different Load Zones.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(7)	Each TSP and DCTO shall provide ERCOT with information describing all transmission Load connections on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Individual Load connections may be combined, at the discretion of ERCOT, with other Load connections on the same transmission line to represent a Model Load to facilitate state estimation of Loads that do not telemeter Load measurements.  ERCOT shall define “Model Loads”, which may be one or more combined Loads, for use in its Network Operations Model.  A Model Load cannot be used to represent Load connections that are in different Load Zones.  
(8)	ERCOT may require TSPs to provide additional Load telemetry to provide adequate modeling of the transmission system in accordance with Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards.  When the TSP does not own the station for which additional Load telemetry is being requested, the TSP shall request that the owner make the telemetry available.  The TSP shall notify ERCOT if the owner does not comply with the request.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(8)	ERCOT may require TSPs and DCTOs to provide additional Load telemetry to provide adequate modeling of the transmission system in accordance with Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards.  When the TSP or DCTO does not own the station for which additional Load telemetry is being requested, the TSP shall request that the owner make the telemetry available.  The TSP or DCTO shall notify ERCOT if the owner does not comply with the request.  
(9)	ERCOT shall create a DC Tie Load to represent an equivalent Load withdrawal to represent the flow from the ERCOT Transmission Grid from operation of DC Ties.  The actual withdrawal flow on the DC Tie from telemetry provided by the facility owner(s) is the DC Tie Load output. 
(10)	Each TSP shall also provide information to ERCOT describing automatic Load transfer (rollover) plans and the events that trigger which Loads are switched to other Transmission Elements on detection of Outage of a primary Transmission Element.  ERCOT shall accommodate Load rollover plans in the Network Operations Model.
(11)	Loads associated with a Generation Resource in a common switchyard as defined in Section 10.3.2.3, Generation Netting for ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters, and served through a transformer owned by the Resource Entity is treated as an auxiliary Load and must be netted first against any generation meeting the requirements under Section 10.3.2.3. 
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (11) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(11)	Loads associated with a Generation Resource or ESR in a common switchyard as defined in Section 10.3.2.3, Generation Netting for ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters, and served through a transformer owned by the Resource Entity is treated as an auxiliary Load and must be netted first against any generation meeting the requirements under Section 10.3.2.3.
(12)	If the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) determines, in the processing of Outages, that a Load Resource, DGR, or DESR is de-energized in the ERCOT Network Operations Model, the de-energized Resource will be eligible to receive Ancillary Service awards in the DAM, but will not be eligible to receive energy awards in the DAM.
(13)	A Resource Entity may aggregate Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) generation equipment together to form an IRR (Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) or PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR)) if the generation equipment is behind the same main power transformer and is the same model and size, and the aggregation does not reduce ERCOT’s ability to model pre- and post-contingency conditions.  A Resource Entity may also aggregate IRR generation equipment that is not the same model and size together with an existing IRR only if:
(a)	The mix of IRR generation equipment models and sizes causes no degradation in the dynamic performance of the IRR represented by the parameters modeled by ERCOT in operational studies and the aggregation of IRR generation equipment does not limit ERCOT’s ability to model the ERCOT Transmission Grid and the relevant contingencies required for monitoring pre- and post-contingency system limits and conditions;
(b)	The mix of IRR generation equipment is included in the Resource Registration data submitted for the WGR;
(c)	All relevant IRR generation equipment data requested by ERCOT is provided;
(d)	With the addition of dissimilar IRR generation equipment, the existing IRR shall continue to meet the applicable Protocol performance requirements, including but not limited to Primary Frequency Response, dynamic capability and Reactive Power capability, at the POIB; and
(e)	Either:
(i)	No more than the lower of 5% or ten MW aggregate capacity is of IRR generation equipment that is not the same model or size from the other equipment within the existing IRR; or
(ii)	The wind turbines that are not the same model or size meet the following criteria:
(A)	The IRR generation equipment has similar dynamic characteristics to the existing IRR generation equipment, as determined by ERCOT in its sole discretion;
(B)	The MW capability difference of each generator is no more than 10% of each generator’s maximum MW rating; and
(C)	For WGRs, the manufacturer’s power curves for the wind turbines have a correlation of 0.95 or greater with the other wind turbines within the existing WGR over wind speeds of 0 to 18 m/s. 
3.10.7.2.1	Reporting of Demand Response
(1)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website by the fifth Business Day after the start of a calendar month a report of the MW of Demand response that is participating in the past month in Emergency Response Service (ERS), Ancillary Service as a Load Resource, or any pilot project permitted by subsection (k) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.361, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT).  The data shall be aggregated according to the corresponding 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zone (CMZ).  Data for participation in ERS shall be based on contracted amounts for each type of service for that calendar month.  ERCOT shall set out separately MW contracted from both ERS Generators and generators that are participating by offsetting ERS Loads (with aggregated and non-aggregated ERS Generators set forth separately) and MW of ERS Loads.  To the extent that a participating generator is not registered with ERCOT, information about the nameplate rating of the generator and the maximum deliverable to the ERCOT Transmission Grid or to serve native load shall be collected through the ERS contracting process.  The report shall include these values for each ERS Contract Period broken down by ERS Time Period.  Data for Ancillary Services shall be based on the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility contained in the Current Operating Plan (COP) as of the start of the Adjustment Period for each Operating Day.  ERCOT’s posting of Ancillary Service and pilot project participation data shall include the average MW capacity by service type by hour (or by another time period, if a pilot project service is not procured hourly).
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website by the fifth Business Day after the start of a calendar month a report of the MW of Demand response that is participating in the past month in Emergency Response Service (ERS), Ancillary Service as a Load Resource, or any pilot project permitted by subsection (k) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.361, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT).  The data shall be aggregated according to the corresponding 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zone (CMZ).  Data for participation in ERS shall be based on contracted amounts for each type of service for that calendar month.  ERCOT shall set out separately MW contracted from both ERS Generators and generators that are participating by offsetting ERS Loads (with aggregated and non-aggregated ERS Generators set forth separately) and MW of ERS Loads.  To the extent that a participating generator is not registered with ERCOT, information about the nameplate rating of the generator and the maximum deliverable to the ERCOT Transmission Grid or to serve native load shall be collected through the ERS contracting process.  The report shall include these values for each ERS Contract Period broken down by ERS Time Period.  Data for Ancillary Services shall be based on the Ancillary Service Resource awards in the RTM.  ERCOT’s posting of Ancillary Service and pilot project participation data shall include the average MW capacity by service type by hour (or by another time period, if a pilot project service is not procured hourly).
3.10.7.2.2	Annual Demand Response Report
(1)	On an annual basis, ERCOT shall work with Market Participants to produce a report summarizing aggregate customer counts and MWs enrolled in Demand response in the ERCOT Region pursuant to subsection (e)(5) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.505, Reporting Requirements and the Scarcity Pricing Mechanism in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas Power Region.  This report shall be posted to the ERCOT website no later than December 31 of each reporting calendar year.  Technical requirements for providing information to ERCOT for the report are located in the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”.  ERCOT may, for purposes of this section, associate Entities; however, ERCOT shall not determine Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs) to be associated based on their membership in a generation and transmission cooperative or as a result of being a party to a single Load Serving Entity (LSE) registration.
(a)	Retail Electric Providers (REPs) in competitive regions of ERCOT shall be ranked in descending order by their average daily consumption for summer (June – September) weekdays excluding holidays.  The largest REPs that account for 98% of the total shall be required to participate in the survey for the subsequent calendar year.  For purposes of assigning this participation requirement, REPs determined by ERCOT to be associated shall have their consumption aggregated prior to the ranking.
(b)	NOIE Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) operating in the ERCOT Region that register a summer month (June – September) 15-minute interval peak Demand greater than or equal to 100 MW, shall be required to participate in the survey the subsequent calendar year.  For purposes of assigning this participation requirement, NOIEs determined by ERCOT to be associated shall have their 15-minute interval peak Demand aggregated prior to the ranking.  Participation in the survey shall be the responsibility of either the NOIE TDSP or the NOIE LSE associated with that TDSP based on which entity is responsible for administering Demand response programs within the NOIE TDSP footprint.
(2)	By December 31 of each year, ERCOT shall provide advance notice of participation status.  To the extent that REPs discontinue participation in the ERCOT market or change associations prior to the snapshot date, ERCOT will send revised notices to REPs affected by such changes no later than August 1 of the survey year.  ERCOT shall:
(a)	Analyze the summer consumption for all NOIEs and REPs and determine which are required to participate in the Demand response survey for the following year;
(b)	Provide advance notice, via email to the Authorized Representative, to all NOIEs and REPs regarding their participation status; and
(c)	Provide a list of all REPs or NOIE TDSPs to the Authorized Representative, including all those determined by ERCOT to be associated, to which the participation status applies.
(3) 	By August 1 of the survey year, ERCOT shall provide official notice of the beginning of the Demand response data collection process.  ERCOT shall:
(a)	Issue a Market Notice to notify all REPs and NOIEs that the annual Demand response data collection process is beginning.  The Market Notice shall make reference to this Protocol section, and shall reiterate specifics of the timeline for the survey process that are to be followed;
(b) 	Send a reminder email to the Authorized Representative for all REPs, NOIE LSEs and NOIE TDSPs of their participation status.  The email shall also contain the list of all REPs or NOIE TDSPs, for which participation status applies.  The list shall include all REPs or NOIE TDSPs determined by ERCOT to be associated.  This list shall be updated based on any changes in associations that have occurred since the time the advance notice was issued.
(4) 	By August 15 of the survey year, REPs and NOIEs that are required to participate in that year’s survey, and that will have Customers participating in one or more Demand response program as of the snapshot date of September 1 shall reply to ERCOT with the following:
(a) 	An acknowledgement of the participation requirement;

(b) 	An indication that they expect to have Customers participating in one or more Demand response programs on the snapshot date of September 1;

(c)	A list of contact people and their email address within their organization that should receive copies of communications related to the survey from ERCOT; 

(d) 	Specifically for REPs, an indication as to which of the methods described in the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications” the REP intends to use to submit files to and receive files from ERCOT; and

(e) 	Specifically for NOIEs, an indication as to whether the NOIE TDSP or the NOIE LSE is responsible for administering the Demand response programs within the NOIE TDSP area.

(5) 	By August 15 of the survey year, REPs and NOIEs that are required to participate in that year’s survey, and that do not plan to have any Customers participating in Demand response programs as of the snapshot date of September 1 shall reply to ERCOT indicating the lack of such participation.  REPs and NOIEs that are not required to participate in that year’s survey are not required to reply to ERCOT. 
(6)	By October 15 of the survey year, the REPs participating in that year’s survey shall compile the required Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) participation data in the format specified by the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”, and submit the data to ERCOT. 
(7)	By October 31 of the survey year, the REPs participating in that year’s survey that have reported participation in programs which entail REP-initiated deployments shall compile the required deployment event participation data in the format specified by the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”, and submit the data to ERCOT. 
(8)	By October 31 of the survey year, the NOIEs participating in that year’s survey shall compile the required data in the format specified by the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”, and submit the data to ERCOT. 
(9)	ERCOT shall validate the submitted reports, and indicate any errors and inconsistencies that require correction to the REP or NOIE, within two Business Days of the submission in the manner specified in the Other Binding Document titled “Demand Response Data Definitions and Technical Specifications”.  
(10)	On or before October 31 of the survey year, REPs shall address the errors and inconsistencies and submit corrected reports to ERCOT.  ERCOT will notify the Authorized Representative for each REP and/or NOIE when they have achieved the required level of accuracy.
(11)	On or before November 7 of the survey year, NOIEs shall address the errors and inconsistencies and submit corrected reports to ERCOT.  ERCOT will notify the Authorized Representative for each REP and/or NOIE when they have achieved the required level of accuracy.
(12)	Information provided by NOIEs and REPs to meet the above described reporting requirements shall be treated as Protected Information in accordance with Section 1.3, Confidentiality.
3.10.7.3	Modeling of Private Use Networks
(1)	ERCOT shall create and use network models describing Private Use Networks according to the following:
(a)	A Generation Entity with a Resource located within a Private Use Network shall provide data to ERCOT, for use in the Network Operations Model, for each of its individual generating unit(s) located within the Private Use Network in accordance with Section 3.3.2.1, Information to Be Provided to ERCOT, if it meets any one of the following criteria:
(i)	Contains a generator greater than ten MW and is registered with the PUCT according to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.109, Registration of Power Generation Companies and Self-Generators, as a power generation company; or
(ii)	Is part of a Private Use Network which contains more than one connection to the ERCOT Transmission Grid; or
(iii)	Contains generation registered to provide Ancillary Services.
(b)	A Generation Entity with an SOTSG shall provide to ERCOT annually, or more often upon change, the following information for ERCOT’s use in the Network Operations Model, for each of its individual generating unit(s) located within the Private Use Network:
(i)	Equipment owner(s);
(ii)	Equipment operator(s);
(iii)	TSP substation name connecting the Private Use Network to the ERCOT System; 
(iv)	At the request of ERCOT, a description of Transmission Elements within the Private Use Network that may be connected through breakers or switches;
(v)	Net energy delivery metering, as required by ERCOT, to and from the Private Use Network and the ERCOT System at the POIB; 
(vi)	For each individual generator located within the Private Use Network, the gross capacity in MW and its reactive capability curve;
(vii)	Maximum and minimum reasonability limits of the Load located within the Private Use Network;
(viii)	Outage schedule for each generation unit located within the Private Use Network, updated as changes occur from the annually submitted information; and
(ix)	Other interconnection data as required by ERCOT.
(c)	Energy delivered to ERCOT from an SOTSG shall be settled in accordance with Section 6.6.3.2, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Load Zone.
(d)	ERCOT shall ensure the Network Operations Model properly models the physical effect of the loss of generators and Transmission Elements on the ERCOT Transmission Grid equipment loading, voltage, and stability.  
(e)	ERCOT may require the owner or operator of a Private Use Network to provide information to ERCOT and the TSP on Transmission Facilities located within the Private Use Network for use in the Network Operations Model if the information is required to adequately model and determine the security of the ERCOT Transmission Grid, including data to perform loop flow analysis of Private Use Networks.
(f)	ERCOT shall review submittals of modeling data from owners or operators of Private Use Networks assure that it will result in correct analysis of ERCOT Transmission Grid security.
3.10.7.4	Remedial Action Schemes, Automatic Mitigation Plans and Remedial Action Plans
(1) 	All approved Remedial Action Schemes (RASs), Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs) and Remedial Action Plans (RAPs) must be defined in the Network Operations Model where practicable. 
(2) 	Proposed new RASs, AMPs and RAPs and proposed changes to RASs, AMPs and RAPs must be submitted to ERCOT for review and approval. ERCOT shall seek input from TSPs and Resource Entities that own Transmission Facilities included in the RASs or AMPs or RAPs, and shall approve proposed new RASs, AMPs and RAPs and proposed changes to RASs, AMPs and RAPs in accordance with the process outlined in the Operating Guides. This shall include verification of the Network Operations Model. ERCOT shall provide notification to the market and post all RASs, AMPs and RAPs under consideration on the MIS Secure Area within five Business Days of receipt. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2) 	Proposed new RASs, AMPs and RAPs and proposed changes to RASs, AMPs and RAPs must be submitted to ERCOT for review and approval.  ERCOT shall seek input from TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities that own Transmission Facilities included in the RASs or AMPs or RAPs, and shall approve proposed new RASs, AMPs and RAPs and proposed changes to RASs, AMPs and RAPs in accordance with the process outlined in the Operating Guides.  This shall include verification of the Network Operations Model.  ERCOT shall provide notification to the market and post all RASs, AMPs and RAPs under consideration on the MIS Secure Area within five Business Days of receipt.
(3)	ERCOT shall use a NOMCR to model approved RASs, AMPs and RAPs where practicable and include the RASs, AMPs or RAPs modeled in the Network Operations Model in the security analysis. The NOMCR shall include a detailed description of the system conditions required to implement the RASs, AMPs or RAPs. If an approved RAS, AMP, or RAP cannot be modeled, then ERCOT shall develop an alternative method for recognizing the unmodeled RAS, AMP, or RAP in its tools. Execution of RASs, AMPs or RAPs modeled in the Network Operations Model shall be included or assumed in the calculation of LMPs. ERCOT shall provide notification to the market and post on the MIS Secure Area all approved RASs, AMPs and RAPs at least two Business Days before implementation, identifying the date of implementation. The notification to the market shall state whether the approved RAP, AMP, or RAS will be modeled in the Network Operations Model.  For RAPs developed in Real-Time, ERCOT shall provide notification to the market as soon as practicable.
3.10.7.5	Telemetry Requirements
(1)	The telemetry provided to ERCOT necessary to support the State Estimator must meet the requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements.
(2)	The telemetry provided to ERCOT by each TSP and QSE must be updated at a ten second or less scan rate and be provided to ERCOT at the same rate.  Each TSP and QSE shall install appropriate condition detection capability to notify ERCOT of potentially incorrect data from loss of communication or scan function.  Condition codes must accompany the data to indicate its quality and whether the data has been measured within the scan rate requirement.  Also, ERCOT shall analyze data received for possible loss of updates.  Similarly, ERCOT shall provide condition detection capability on loss of telemetry links with the TSP and QSE.  ERCOT shall represent data condition codes from each TSP and QSE in a consistent manner for all applicable ERCOT applications.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	The telemetry provided to ERCOT by each TSP, QSE, or DCTO must be updated at a ten second or less scan rate and be provided to ERCOT at the same rate.  Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall install appropriate condition detection capability to notify ERCOT of potentially incorrect data from loss of communication or scan function.  Condition codes must accompany the data to indicate its quality and whether the data has been measured within the scan rate requirement.  Also, ERCOT shall analyze data received for possible loss of updates.  Similarly, ERCOT shall provide condition detection capability on loss of telemetry links with the TSP, DCTO, and QSE.  ERCOT shall represent data condition codes from each TSP, DCTO, and QSE in a consistent manner for all applicable ERCOT applications.
(3)	Each TSP and QSE shall use fully redundant ICCP links between its control center systems and ERCOT systems such that any single element of the communication system can fail and:
(a)	For server failures, complete information must be re-established within five minutes by automatic failover to alternate server(s); and
(b)	For all other failures, complete information must continue to flow between the TSP’s, QSE’s, and ERCOT’s control centers with updates of all data continuing at a 30 second or less scan rate.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall use fully redundant ICCP links between its control center systems and ERCOT systems such that any single element of the communication system can fail and:
(a)	For server failures, complete information must be re-established within five minutes by automatic failover to alternate server(s); and
(b)	For all other failures, complete information must continue to flow between the TSP’s, DCTO’s, QSE’s, and ERCOT’s control centers with updates of all data continuing at a 30 second or less scan rate.
(4)	When ERCOT identifies a reliability concern, a deficiency in system observability, or a deficiency in measurement to support the representation of Model Loads, and that concern or deficiency is not due to any inadequacy of the State Estimator program, additional telemetry may be requested as described in Section 3.10.7.5.9, ERCOT Requests for Telemetry.
3.10.7.5.1	Continuous Telemetry of the Status of Breakers and Switches
(1)	Each TSP and QSE shall be responsible for providing telemetry, as described in this subsection, to ERCOT on the status of all breakers and switches it owns or its Resource owns, respectively, used to switch any Transmission Element or Load modeled by ERCOT.  
(2)	Each TSP and QSE is not required to install telemetry on individual breakers and switches it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, where the telemetered status shown to ERCOT is current and free from ambiguous changes in state caused by the TSP or Resource Entity switching operations and TSP or Resource Entity personnel.
(3)	Each TSP, Resource Entity, or QSE shall update the status of any breaker or switch it owns or is responsible for through manual entries, if necessary, to communicate the actual current state of the device to ERCOT, except if the change in state is expected to return to the prior state within one minute.  
(4)	If in the sole opinion of ERCOT, the manual updates of the TSP or QSE have been unsuccessful in maintaining the accuracy required to support State Estimator performance to a TAC-approved predefined standard as described in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements, ERCOT may request that the TSP or QSE install complete telemetry from the breaker or switch it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to the TSP or QSE, and then to ERCOT.  
(a)	In making the determination to request installation of additional telemetry from a breaker or switch, ERCOT shall consider the economic implications of inaccurate representation of Model Loads in LMP results versus the cost to remedy.
(b)	If the TSP or QSE disputes the request for additional telemetry on individual breakers and switches it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, it may appeal the request pursuant to Section 3.10.7.5.9, ERCOT Requests for Telemetry.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraphs (1) through (4) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall provide telemetry, as described in this subsection, to ERCOT on the status of all breakers and switches it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively used to switch any Transmission Element or Load modeled by ERCOT.
(2)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE is not required to install telemetry on individual breakers and switches it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, where the telemetered status shown to ERCOT is current and free from ambiguous changes in state caused by the TSP, DCTO, or QSE switching operations and TSP, DCTO, or QSE personnel.  
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall update the status of any breaker or switch it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, through manual entries, if necessary, to communicate the actual current state of the device to ERCOT, except if the change in state is expected to return to the prior state within one minute.  
(4)	If in the sole opinion of ERCOT, the manual updates of the TSP, DCTO, or QSE have been unsuccessful in maintaining the accuracy required to support State Estimator performance to a TAC-approved predefined standard as described in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements, ERCOT may request that the TSP, DCTO, or QSE install complete telemetry from the breaker or switch it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to the TSP, DCTO, or QSE, and then to ERCOT.  
(a)	In making the determination to request installation of additional telemetry from a breaker or switch, ERCOT shall consider the economic implications of inaccurate representation of Model Loads in LMP results versus the cost to remedy.
(b)	If the TSP or associated QSE disputes the request for additional telemetry it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, it may appeal the request pursuant to Section 3.10.7.5.9, ERCOT Requests for Telemetry.
(5)	ERCOT shall measure TSP and QSE performance in providing accurate data that do not include ambiguous changes in state and shall report the performance metrics on the MIS Secure Area on a monthly basis.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	ERCOT shall measure TSP, DCTO, and QSE performance in providing accurate data that do not include ambiguous changes in state and shall report the performance metrics on the MIS Secure Area on a monthly basis.  
(6)	Unless there is an Emergency Condition, TSPs and QSEs must obtain approval from ERCOT to purposely open a breaker or switch unless that breaker or switch is shown in a Planned Outage in the Outage Scheduler, or the device will return to its previous state within 60 minutes, or the device is a generator output circuit breaker.  Also, TSPs and QSEs must obtain approval from ERCOT before closing any breaker or switch, except in response to a Forced Outage, or an emergency, or the device will return to its previous state within 60 minutes, or the device is a generator output circuit breaker.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(6)	Unless there is an Emergency Condition, TSPs, DCTOs, and QSEs must obtain approval from ERCOT to purposely open a breaker or switch unless that breaker or switch is shown in a Planned Outage in the Outage Scheduler, or the device will return to its previous state within 60 minutes, or the device is a generator output circuit breaker.  Also, TSPs, DCTOs, and QSEs must obtain approval from ERCOT before closing any breaker or switch, except in response to a Forced Outage, or an emergency, or the device will return to its previous state within 60 minutes, or the device is a generator output circuit breaker.
(7)	ERCOT shall monitor the data condition codes of all breakers and switches showing loss of communication or scan function in the Network Operations Model.  When the telemetry of breakers and switches is lost, ERCOT shall use the last known state of the device for security analysis as updated by the Outage Scheduler and through verbal communication with the TSP or QSE.  ERCOT’s systems must identify probable errors in switch or breaker status and ERCOT shall act to resolve or correct such errors in a timely manner as described in Section 6, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(7)	ERCOT shall monitor the data condition codes of all breakers and switches showing loss of communication or scan function in the Network Operations Model.  When the telemetry of breakers and switches is lost, ERCOT shall use the last known state of the device for security analysis as updated by the Outage Scheduler and through verbal communication with the TSP, DCTO, or QSE.  ERCOT’s systems must identify probable errors in switch or breaker status and ERCOT shall act to resolve or correct such errors in a timely manner as described in Section 6, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations.
(8)	ERCOT shall establish a system that provides alarms to ERCOT Operators when there is a change in status of any monitored transmission breaker or switch, and an indication of whether the device change of status was planned in the Outage Scheduler.  ERCOT Operators shall monitor any changes in status not only for reliability of operations, but also for accuracy and impact on the operation of the SCED functions and subsequent potential for calculation of inaccurate LMPs.
(9)	Each QSE that represents a Split Generation Resource, with metering according to Section 3.8, Special Considerations, shall provide ERCOT with telemetry of the actual generator breakers and switches continuously providing ERCOT with the status of the individual Split Generation Resource.
3.10.7.5.2	Continuous Telemetry of the Real-Time Measurements of Bus Load, Voltages, Tap Position, and Flows
(1)	Each TSP and QSE shall provide telemetry of voltages, flows, and Loads on any modeled Transmission Element it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to the extent such may be required to estimate all transmission Load withdrawals and generation injections to and from the ERCOT Transmission Grid using the State Estimator and as needed to meet the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements, with consideration given to the economic implications of inaccurate LMP results versus the cost to remedy.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall provide telemetry of voltages, flows, and Loads on any modeled Transmission Element it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to the extent such may be required to estimate all transmission Load withdrawals and generation injections to and from the ERCOT Transmission Grid using the State Estimator and as needed to meet the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements, with consideration given to the economic implications of inaccurate LMP results versus the cost to remedy.
(2)	Each QSE that represents a Split Generation Resource, with metering according to Section 3.8, Special Considerations, shall provide ERCOT with telemetry of the actual equivalent generator injection of its Split Generation Resource and the Master QSE shall provide telemetry in accordance with Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements, on a total Generation Resource basis.  ERCOT shall calculate the sum of each QSE’s telemetry on a Split Generation Resource and compare the sum to the telemetry for the total Generation Resource.  ERCOT shall notify each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource of any errors in telemetry detected by the State Estimator.
(3)	Each TSP and QSE shall provide telemetered measurements at a periodicity of ten seconds on modeled Transmission Elements it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to ensure State Estimator observability of any monitored voltage and power flow between their associated transmission breakers to the extent such can be shown to be needed to meet the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9.  On monitored non-Load substations, ERCOT may request additional telemetry in accordance with Section 3.10.7.5.10, ERCOT Requests for Redundant Telemetry.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and QSE shall provide telemetered measurements at a periodicity of ten seconds on modeled Transmission Elements it owns or its Resource Entity owns, respectively, to ensure State Estimator observability of any monitored voltage and power flow between their associated transmission breakers to the extent such can be shown to be needed to meet the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9.  On monitored non-Load substations, ERCOT may request additional telemetry in accordance with Section 3.10.7.5.10, ERCOT Requests for Redundant Telemetry.
(4)	The accuracy of the State Estimator is critical to successful market operations.  For this reason it is a critical objective for ERCOT to maintain reasonable and accurate results of the State Estimator.  ERCOT shall use all reasonable efforts to achieve that objective, including the provision of legitimate constraints used in calculating LMPs.  
(5)	Each TSP, QSE and ERCOT shall develop a continuously operated program to maintain telemetry of all Transmission Element measurements to provide accurate State Estimator results as outlined in Section 3.10.9.  For any location where there is a connection of multiple, measured, Transmission Elements, ERCOT shall have an automated process to detect and notify ERCOT System operators if the residual sum of all telemetered measurements is more than:
(a)	5% of the largest line Normal Rating at the State Estimator Bus; or 
(b)	Five MW, whichever is greater.  
If a location chronically fails this test, ERCOT shall notify the applicable TSP or QSE and suggest actions that the TSP or QSE could take to correct the failure.  Within 30 days, the TSP or QSE shall take the actions necessary to correct the failure or provide ERCOT with a detailed plan with a projected time frame to correct the failure.  ERCOT shall post a notice on the MIS Secure Area of any State Estimator Buses not meeting the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, including a list of all measurements and the residual errors on a monthly basis.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	Each TSP, DCTO, QSE, and ERCOT shall develop a continuously operated program to maintain telemetry of all Transmission Element measurements to provide accurate State Estimator results as outlined in Section 3.10.9.  For any location where there is a connection of multiple, measured, Transmission Elements, ERCOT shall have an automated process to detect and notify ERCOT System operators if the residual sum of all telemetered measurements is more than:
(a)	5% of the largest line Normal Rating at the State Estimator Bus; or 
(b)	Five MW, whichever is greater.  
If a location chronically fails this test, ERCOT shall notify the applicable TSP, DCTO, or QSE and suggest actions that the TSP, DCTO, or QSE could take to correct the failure.  Within 30 days, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE shall take the actions necessary to correct the failure or provide ERCOT with a detailed plan with a projected time frame to correct the failure.  ERCOT shall post a notice on the MIS Secure Area of any State Estimator Buses not meeting the State Estimator requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9, including a list of all measurements and the residual errors on a monthly basis.  
(6)	ERCOT shall implement a study mode version of the State Estimator with special tools designed for troubleshooting and tuning purposes that can be used independently of any other ERCOT process that is dependent on the Real-Time State Estimator.  ERCOT shall implement a process to recognize inaccurate State Estimator results and shall create and implement alternative Real-Time LMP calculation processes for use when inaccurate results are detected.  ERCOT must be guided in this by Section 3.10.9.
(7)	ERCOT shall establish a system to provide overload and over/under limit alarming on all Transmission Elements monitored as constraints in the LMP models.
(8)  	Each TSP shall designate which telemetered measurement of the POIB voltage shall be utilized to determine compliance with Voltage Set Point instructions, and then update the designation as necessary in the Network Operations Model by submitting a NOMCR.  Each TSP shall telemeter this POI kV bus measurement to ERCOT.  If the TSP cannot provide a kV bus measurement at the POI, the TSP may propose an alternate location subject to ERCOT approval.
[NPRR1098:  Insert paragraph (9) below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(9)	Each TO designated by a DCTO operating a DC Tie meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) of Section 3.15.4, Direct Current Tie Owner and Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support, shall designate which telemetered measurement of the POIB voltage shall be utilized to determine compliance with target voltage instructions, and then update the designation as necessary in the Network Operations Model by submitting a NOMCR.  Each TO shall telemeter this POI kV bus measurement to ERCOT via ICCP and the DCTO via telemetry.  If the TO cannot provide a kV bus measurement at the POI, the TO may propose an alternate location subject to ERCOT approval.
3.10.7.5.3 	Required Telemetry of Voltage and Power Flow
(1)	QSEs, Resource Entities and TSPs as indicated in each subsection below shall provide power operation data to ERCOT, including, but not limited to:
(a)	Real-Time generation data from QSEs; 
(b)	Planned and Forced Outage information from QSEs; 
(c)	Network data from TSPs and QSEs , including:
(i)	Breaker and line switch status of all ERCOT Transmission Grid devices;  
(ii)	Line flow MW and MVAr;
(iii)	Breaker and switch status connected to any Resource;
(iv)	Transmission Facility voltages; and 
(v)	Transformer MW, MVAr and tap;
(d)	Real-Time generation and Load Resource meter data from QSEs;
(e)	Real-Time generation meter splitting signal from QSEs;
(f)	Transmission Facility Planned and Forced Outage information from TSPs;
(g)	Network transmission data (model and constraints) from TSPs; and
(h)	Resource modeling data, including any Resource owned transmission equipment data from Resource entity; and
(i)	Dynamic schedules from QSEs.
(2)	Real-Time data will be provided to ERCOT at the same scan rate as the TSP, Resource Entity, or QSE obtains the data from telemetry unless ERCOT requests a slower rate.
3.10.7.5.4	General Telemetry Performance Criteria
(1)	The following criteria will apply to telemetry provided to ERCOT.  Performance is posted on the MIS Secure Area in accordance with Nodal Operating Guide Section 9, Monitoring Programs:
(a)	Each TSP shall maintain the sum of flows into any telemetered bus it owns or is responsible for less than the greater of five MW or 5% of the largest normal line rating at each bus.
(b)	Each TSP and QSE shall provide data to ERCOT that meets the following availability:
(i)	92% of all telemetry provided to ERCOT must achieve a quarterly availability of 80%.  Availability shall be measured based on end-to-end connectivity of the communications path and the passing of Real-Time data with a Valid, Manual, or Calculated quality code at the scheduled periodicity.  Quality codes are defined in Section 3.10.7.5.8.1, Data Quality Codes.
(ii)	TSPs shall make reasonable efforts to obtain data from Customers associated with new Customer-owned substations to meet this requirement or obtain agreement from ERCOT that these Customers have entered into arrangements with ERCOT to provide this data to ERCOT.  If the data cannot be obtained under either of these methods, ERCOT shall report such case to the IMM.
(c)	Exceptions to the general telemetry performance criteria may be made, at ERCOT’s sole discretion, for data points not significant in the solution of the State Estimator or required for the reliable operation on the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Examples of such data points include but are not limited to:
(i)	A substation with no more than two transmission lines and less than ten MW of peak Load;
(ii)	Connection of Loads along a continuous, non-branching circuit that may be combined for telemetry purposes; and
(iii)	Substations connected radially to the ERCOT Transmission Grid. 
(d)	During a Force Majeure Event, ERCOT may suspend requirements until normal operations have resumed.
3.10.7.5.5	Supplemental Telemetry Performance Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall identify specific MW/MVAr telemetry pairs, not exceeding 10% of the Transmission Elements within the ERCOT System, and the 20 station voltage points that are most important to reliability, system observability or support of State Estimator performance, or are of a commercial market concern. 
(2)	The important telemetry points identified pursuant to this Section must meet more stringent criteria for accuracy and availability where specifically addressed.  ERCOT shall review this list annually.  ERCOT shall publish the list of important telemetry points quarterly on the MIS Secure Area.
(3)	ERCOT shall use the following criteria to identify the important telemetry points: 
(a) 	Loss of a telemetry point that results in the inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on a transmission line operated at 345 kV or above.
(b) 	Loss of a telemetry point that results in the inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on a 345/138 kV autotransformer.
(c) 	Loss of a telemetry point that results in the inability of ERCOT to monitor the loading on Transmission Facilities designated as important to transmission reliability by ERCOT.  
(d) 	Telemetry necessary to monitor Transmission Elements identified as causing 80% of all congestion cost in the year for which the most recent data is available.
(e) 	Telemetry necessary to monitor the bus voltages at the 20 most important station voltage points. 
(4)	Each TSP and QSE shall provide data to ERCOT such that 92% of the important telemetry points identified achieve a quarterly availability of 90%.  Availability shall be measured based on end-to-end connectivity of the communications path and the passing of Real-Time data with Valid, Manual, or Calculated quality codes at the scheduled periodicity.  Quality codes are defined in Section 3.10.7.5.8.1, Data Quality Codes.
3.10.7.5.6	TSP/QSE Telemetry Restoration
(1)	Telemetered data shall be provided continuously.  Real-Time data restoration shall comply with Nodal Operating Guide Sections 7.3.3, Data from WAN Participants to ERCOT, and 7.3.4, Resolving Real-Time Data Issues that affect ERCOT Network Security Analysis.  
(2)	Some data may be more essential to the State Estimator solution.  ERCOT shall inform the TSP or QSE if, in the sole opinion of ERCOT, a data item is essential and needs to be repaired as quickly as possible.  QSEs and TSPs shall make repair procedures and records available to ERCOT upon request.  When ERCOT notifies a data provider that a data element is providing telemetry data inconsistent with surrounding measurements, the provider shall, within 30 days, do one of the following: 
(a) 	Calibrate or repair the failing equipment; 
(b) 	Request an outage to schedule calibration or repair of the failing equipment; 
(c) 	Provide ERCOT with a plan to re-calibrate or repair the equipment in a reasonable time frame; or 
(d)	Provide ERCOT with engineering analysis proving the data element is providing accuracy within its specifications.   
(3)	Before ERCOT requests review or re-calibration of a problem piece of equipment, it shall discuss the problem with the data provider to attempt to arrive at a consensus decision on the most appropriate action. 
3.10.7.5.7	Calibration, Quality Checking, and Testing
(1)	It is the responsibility of the equipment owner to insure that calibration, testing, and other routine maintenance of equipment is done on a timely basis, and that accuracy meets or exceeds the requirements specified in this Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements, for both the overall system and for individual equipment where detailed herein.  Coordination with ERCOT of outages required for these activities is also the responsibility of the owner.
3.10.7.5.8	Inter-Control Center Communications Protocol (ICCP) Links
3.10.7.5.8.1	Data Quality Codes
(1)	Market Participants shall provide documentation to ERCOT describing their native system quality codes and defining the conversion of their quality codes into the ERCOT-defined quality codes. 
(2)	Statuses and analogs telemetered to ERCOT shall be identified with the following quality codes:
(a)	Valid – Represents an analog or status the TSP or QSE considers valid.
(b)	Manual – Represents an analog or status entered manually at the Market Participant (i.e., not received from the field electronically).
(c)	Calculated – Represents an analog point that the TSP or QSE calculates.
(d)	Suspect – Represents an analog or status of which the TSP or QSE is unsure of the validity 
(e)	Invalid – Represents an analog or status that the Market Participant has identified as out of reasonability limits.
(f)	Com_fail – Informs ERCOT that due to communications failure, the analog or status provided ERCOT is not current.
3.10.7.5.8.2	Reliability of ICCP Associations
(1)	Each Market Participant using ICCP associations must achieve a monthly availability of 98%, excluding approved Planned Outages.  Availability shall be measured based on end-to-end connectivity of the communications path and the passing of configured data at the scheduled periodicity.  To meet the 98% monthly availability, each Market Participant should establish a process to coordinate downtime for ICCP associations and database maintenance.  High availability configuration as allowed by the ERCOT Nodal ICCP Communication Handbook should be treated as a single association to achieve this availability measure.  
3.10.7.5.9	ERCOT Requests for Telemetry
(1)	ERCOT is required to protect Transmission Facilities operated at 60 kV or above from damage.  To do this, ERCOT may request that additional telemetry be installed, while attempting to minimize adding equipment to as few locations as practicable.
(2)	ERCOT may request additional telemetry when it determines that network observability or the measurement redundancy is not adequate to produce acceptable State Estimator results.
(3)	Prior to making a request for additional telemetry, ERCOT shall provide evidence supporting a congestion or reliability problem requiring additional observability and define expected improvements in ERCOT System observability needed.  If the request is for telemetry additions at more than one location, ERCOT shall prioritize the requested additions.
(4)	No later than 60 days after receipt of a request for additional telemetry, the TSP or QSE shall:
(a)	Accept ERCOT’s request for additional telemetry and notify ERCOT of the implementation schedule, which shall be no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry;
(b)	Provide an alternative proposal to ERCOT, for implementation no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry, that meets the requirements described by ERCOT;
(c)	Propose a normal topology change by changing normal status of switch(es) in the area that would eliminate the security violations that are ERCOT’s concern; 
(d)	Indicate that the requested telemetry point is at a location where the TSP or QSE does not have the authority to install the requested telemetry.  For points on privately owned facilities connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, an attempt will be made to facilitate ERCOT's telemetry request;
(e)	Provide ERCOT an analysis of the cost to comply with the request, so that, ERCOT can perform a cost justification with respect to the LMP market; or
(f)	If the TSP or QSE disagrees with the request, the TSP or QSE may request that ERCOT withdraw its request for additional telemetry.  
[NPRR979:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR857:]
(4)	No later than 60 days after receipt of a request for additional telemetry, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE shall:
(a)	Accept ERCOT’s request for additional telemetry and notify ERCOT of the implementation schedule, which shall be no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry;
(b)	Provide an alternative proposal to ERCOT, for implementation no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry, that meets the requirements described by ERCOT;
(c)	Propose a normal topology change by changing normal status of switch(es) in the area that would eliminate the security violations that are ERCOT’s concern; 
(d)	Indicate that the requested telemetry point is at a location where the TSP, DCTO, or QSE does not have the authority to install the requested telemetry.  For points on privately owned facilities connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, an attempt will be made to facilitate ERCOT's telemetry request;
(e)	Provide ERCOT an analysis of the cost to comply with the request, so that, ERCOT can perform a cost justification with respect to the LMP market; or
(f)	If the TSP, DCTO, or QSE disagrees with the request, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE may request that ERCOT withdraw its request for additional telemetry.   
(5) 	If ERCOT rejects an alternative proposal pursuant to paragraph (4)(b), (c), or (f) above, the TSP or QSE may appeal the original request to TAC within 30 days of receiving notice of ERCOT’s rejection.  If, after receiving an appeal, TAC does not resolve the appeal within 65 days, the TSP or QSE may present its appeal to the ERCOT Board.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a TSP or QSE is not required to provide telemetry measurements from a location not owned by that TSP or QSE if the location owner does not grant access to the TSP or QSE for the purpose of obtaining such measurements.  ERCOT shall report such cases to the IMM.
[NPRR979:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR857:]
(5)	If ERCOT rejects an alternative proposal pursuant to paragraph (4)(b), (c), or (f) above, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE may appeal the original request to TAC within 30 days of receiving notice of ERCOT’s rejection.  If, after receiving an appeal, TAC does not resolve the appeal within 65 days, the TSP, DCTO, or QSE may present its appeal to the ERCOT Board.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a TSP, DCTO, or QSE is not required to provide telemetry measurements from a location not owned by that TSP, DCTO, or QSE if the location owner does not grant access to the TSP, DCTO, or QSE for the purpose of obtaining such measurements.  ERCOT shall report such cases to the IMM.
3.10.7.5.10	ERCOT Requests for Redundant Telemetry
(1)	ERCOT shall maintain redundancy on monitored non-Load substations.
(2)	ERCOT shall identify new telemetry required to maintain N-1 observability on monitored non-Load substations.  The following conditions shall be used to determine what additional telemetry is required:
(a)	Inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on a transmission line operated at 345 kV or above.
(b)	Inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on a 345/138 kV autotransformer.
(c)	Inability of ERCOT to monitor loading on Transmission Facilities designated as important to transmission reliability by ERCOT. 
(3)	ERCOT may request additional MW, MVAr and voltage telemetry to make these measurements redundant.  In this request, ERCOT shall identify these measurements, and the contingency/overload condition and the unit dispatch that makes this a concern.  If the request is for telemetry at multiple locations, ERCOT shall prioritize the requested additions.
(4)	Except as provided in paragraph (5) below, no later than 60 days after receipt of a request for additional telemetry, a TSP or QSE shall:
(a)	Accept ERCOT’s request for additional telemetry and notify ERCOT of the implementation schedule, which shall be no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry; or
(b)	Propose an alternative solution that will serve the same purpose as the ERCOT identified telemetry additions, with a proposed implementation no later than 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry;
(5)	In cases where the request is based on the availability rate of an existing telemetry point, no later than 30 days after receipt of a request for additional telemetry, the TSP or QSE shall:
(a)	Provide a plan to improve the availability rate of the identified telemetry to meet the requirements of paragraph (1)(b)(i) of Section 3.10.7.5.4, General Telemetry Performance Criteria, and paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.7.5.5, Supplemental Telemetry Performance Criteria;
(b)	Provide documentation for why the improvements set forth in paragraph (a) above cannot be accomplished;
(c)	Identify and propose a schedule of equipment installations or maintenance to be completed no later 18 months following the receipt of the request for additional telemetry that would, as a result, change the classification of the Transmission Element identified by ERCOT; or
(d)	Indicate that the facility for which telemetry is being requested is not owned or covered by an agreement that allows the requested party to install the additional telemetry.
(6) 	If ERCOT rejects an alternative solution proposed pursuant to paragraph (4) or (5) above, the TSP or QSE may appeal the original request to TAC within 30 days of receiving notice of ERCOT’s rejection.  If, after receiving an appeal, TAC does not resolve the appeal within 65 days, the TSP or QSE may present its appeal to the ERCOT Board.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a TSP or QSE is not required to provide telemetry measurements from a location not owned by that TSP or QSE if the location owner does not grant access to the TSP or QSE for the purpose of obtaining such measurements.  ERCOT shall report such cases to the IMM.
3.10.7.6	Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits
(1)	For the sole purpose of creating transmission flow constraints between areas of the ERCOT Transmission Grid in ERCOT applications that are unable to recognize non-thermal operating limits (such as system stability limits and voltage limits on Electrical Buses), ERCOT may create new Generic Transmission Constraints (GTCs) or modify existing GTCs for use in reliability and market analysis.  GTCs created or modified as described in this Section shall be used in the SCED application.  ERCOT shall not use GTCs in ERCOT applications to replace other constraints already capable of being directly modeled in the SCED application. 
(2) 	During the ERCOT quarterly stability assessment, performed pursuant to Planning Guide Section 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment, if ERCOT determines a GTC is necessary for a new Generation Resource and SOTSG due to localized stability issues associated with the output of the interconnecting Generation Resource or SOTSG, the GTL for the GTC shall be set to the lowest non-zero limit for all system conditions outside those in which the limit is zero.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	During the ERCOT quarterly stability assessment, performed pursuant to Planning Guide Section 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment, if ERCOT determines a GTC is necessary for a new Generation Resource, ESR, or SOTSG due to localized stability issues associated with the output of the interconnecting Generation Resource, ESR, or SOTSG, the GTL for the GTC shall be set to the lowest non-zero limit for all system conditions outside those in which the limit is zero.
(3)	Except as provided in paragraph (6) below, ERCOT shall post a description of each new or modified GTC to the MIS Secure Area as soon as possible, but no later than the day prior to the GTC or GTC modification becoming effective in any ERCOT application.  Posting of each new or modified GTC shall include:
(a) 	The description of the new or modified GTC including the GTL or description of the data and studies used to calculate the GTL associated with each new or modified GTC;
(b)	The effective date of the new or modified GTC;
(c)	The identity of all constrained Transmission Elements that make up the GTC, including the defined interface where applicable; and
(d)	Detailed information on the development of each GTC, including the defined constraint or interface where applicable; and data and studies used for development of each new or modified GTC, including the GTL associated with each new or modified GTC.  This information shall be redacted or omitted to protect the confidentiality of certain stability-related GTCs.
(4)	Market Participants may review and comment on each new or modified GTC.  Within seven days following receipt of any comments, ERCOT shall post the comments to the MIS Secure Area as part of the information related to the subject GTC.  ERCOT shall review any comments and may modify any part of a given GTC in response to any comments received.
(5)	Anticipated GTLs, except those determined pursuant to paragraph (6) below, shall be posted to the MIS Secure Area no later than one day before the Operating Day. 
(6)	If an unexpected change to ERCOT System conditions requires the creation of a new GTC or the modification of an existing GTC to manage ERCOT System reliability, and the GTC has not been posted pursuant to paragraph (3) above, ERCOT shall issue an Operating Condition Notice (OCN) and post on the MIS Secure Area the new or modified GTC and its associated GTL(s), including the detailed information described in paragraphs (3) and (5) above.  ERCOT shall include an explanation regarding why it did not post the GTC or modification on the previous day.
(7)	No later than 180 days after the effective date of a new GTC, ERCOT shall post a report listing alternatives for exiting the GTC to the MIS Secure Area.  The listed alternatives may include but are not limited to the implementation or modification of a RAS or a transmission improvement project.
3.10.7.7	DC Tie Limits
(1) 	ERCOT shall post DC Tie limits for each hour of the Operating Day to the MIS Secure Area no later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead before the Operating Day.  ERCOT may update these limits as system conditions change. 
(2)	DC Tie limits shall be based on expected system conditions, including Outages, for each hour of the Operating Day and shall be calculated as the lower of the physical capacity of the DC Tie, the amount of DC Tie import and export that could flow without resulting in transmission security violations that would not be resolved by SCED, or, for the DC Ties with Mexico, any limits supplied by the Mexican system operator.  In setting these limits for a given hour, ERCOT shall assume that any Generation Resource shown to be available in its COP will be self-committed or committed at the appropriate time through the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process to resolve any transmission constraints resulting from DC Tie Schedules.  DC Tie Schedules are subject to the actual availability of that generation at the time the Generation Resource is needed, as well as other system conditions.
[NPRR825 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of Section 3.10.7.7 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR825; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
3.10.7.7	DC Tie Advisory Limits
(1) 	Every hour, ERCOT shall post DC Tie advisory limits for each hour of the next 48 hours to the MIS Secure Area.  ERCOT may update these limits as system conditions change.  Any updated DC Tie advisory limits shall be posted to the MIS Secure Area as soon as practicable.
(2)	DC Tie advisory limits shall be based on expected, or actual system conditions, including Outages, for each hour of the Operating Day and shall be calculated as the lower of the available physical capacity of the DC Tie, the amount of DC Tie import and export that could flow without resulting in transmission security violations that would not be resolved by SCED, or, for the DC Ties with Mexico, any limits supplied by the Mexican system operator.  In setting these limits for a given hour, ERCOT shall assume that any Generation Resource or ESR shown to be available in its COP for a given hour will be self-committed or committed at the appropriate time through the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process to resolve any transmission security violations resulting from DC Tie Schedules.  DC Tie Schedules are subject to the actual availability of that generation at the time the Generation Resource or ESR is needed, as well as other system conditions.
3.10.8	Dynamic Ratings
(1)	ERCOT shall use Dynamic Ratings, where available, in the Network Operations Model and the CRR Network Models.
(2)	ERCOT shall use Dynamic Ratings in place of the Normal Rating, Emergency Rating and 15-Minute Rating as applicable as provided under paragraphs (a) or (b) below for Transmission Elements established in the Network Operations Model.  
(a)	A TSP may provide Dynamic Ratings via ICCP for implementation in the next Operating Hour.  ERCOT shall use the Dynamic Ratings in its Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) alarming, Real Time Security Analysis, and SCED process.  In addition, the TSP shall provide ERCOT with a table of equipment rating versus temperature for use in operational planning studies.
(b)	Each TSP may alternatively elect to provide ERCOT with a table of equipment rating versus temperature and a temperature value in Real-Time for each Weather Zone in which the Transmission Element is located.  ERCOT shall apply the table of temperature and rating relationships and ERCOT’s current temperature measurements to determine the rating of each such designated piece of equipment for each Operating Hour.  ERCOT shall use the TSP-provided table in operational planning studies.
(3)	Each Operating Hour, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area updated Dynamic Ratings adjusted for the current temperature.
(4)	ERCOT may request that a TSP submit temperature-adjusted ratings on Transmission Elements that ERCOT identifies as contributing to significant congestion costs.  Each TSP shall provide the additional ratings within two months of such a request using one of the two mechanisms for supplying temperature-adjusted ratings identified above.  Ratings for Transmission Elements operated by multiple TSPs must be supplied by each TSP that has control.  ERCOT shall use the most limiting rating and report the circumstance to the IMM.
3.10.8.1	Dynamic Ratings Delivered via ICCP
(1)	The TSP shall supply the following, via ICCP, updated at least every ten minutes:
(a)	Normal Rating; and
(b)	Optionally Emergency Rating and/or 15-Minute Rating (required when Emergency Rating is provided).
(2)	ERCOT shall link each provided line rating with the ERCOT Network Operations Model and implement the ratings for the next Operating Hour.  ERCOT shall use the Dynamic Ratings in its SCADA alarming, real-time Security Analysis, and SCED process.  When the telemetry is not operational, ERCOT shall use a temperature appropriate for current conditions, and employ the required Dynamic Rating lookup table to determine the appropriate rating. 
3.10.8.2	Dynamic Ratings Delivered via Static Table and Telemetered Temperature
(1)	ERCOT shall define a set of tables implementing the dynamic characteristics provided by the TSP(s) and as applicable, Resource Entity(s), of selected transmission lines, including:
(a)	Line ID;
(b)	From station;
(c)	To station;
(d)	Weather Zone(s);
(e)	TSP(s) and Resource Entity(s); and
(f)	Each of the three ratings: Normal Rating, Emergency Rating, and 15-Minute Rating.
(2)	If a TSP is providing a current temperature for each applicable Weather Zone through SCADA telemetry then ERCOT shall determine the appropriate rating based upon the telemetered temperature, and adjust the Normal Rating, Emergency Rating, and 15-Minute Rating within five minutes of receipt for the next Operating Hour.  ERCOT shall use the Dynamic Ratings in its SCADA alarming, real-time Security Analysis, and SCED process.    
3.10.8.3	Dynamic Rating Network Operations Model Change Requests
(1)	ERCOT shall use the NOMCR process by which TSPs provide electronically to ERCOT the dynamic rating table described in Section 3.10.8.2, Dynamic Ratings Delivered via Static Table and Telemetered Temperature.   
3.10.8.4	ERCOT Responsibilities Related to Dynamic Ratings
(1)	ERCOT shall provide a system to accept and implement Dynamic Ratings or temperatures to be applied to rating tables for each hour in the Day-Ahead and in the Operating Hour.  ERCOT shall also:
(a)	Provide software and processes that allow secure access for TSPs and Market Participants and that maintains a log of data provided and the actions of the TSP and ERCOT, to implement the Dynamic Ratings as described above; 
(b)	Use Dynamic Ratings for alarming, compliance with ERCOT and NERC requirements, and SCED purposes in both Real-Time operations and operational planning;
(c)	Approve or reject the new Dynamic Rating request within 24 hours of receipt;
(d) 	Post Dynamic Ratings approved by ERCOT for each planned production load of the Network Operations Model on the MIS Secure Area.  The posting will include the Transmission Element name, approved thermal rating limits, and the planned effective date; and
(e)	Implement the approved Dynamic Rating automatically within 24 hours of approval.  
(2)	ERCOT shall provide a system to implement Dynamic Ratings and to obtain monthly expected ambient air temperatures to be applied to rating tables for the CRR Network Models. Temperatures applied to the rating tables shall be determined using the same method as described in item (3)(f) of Section 7.5.5.4, Simultaneous Feasibility Test.  Transmission Elements that have Dynamic Ratings implemented in the Network Operations Model must have Dynamic Ratings in the CRR Network Models.
(3)	ERCOT shall identify additional Transmission Elements that have a high probability of providing significant added economic efficiency to the ERCOT market through Dynamic Rating and request such Dynamic Ratings from the associated TSP.  ERCOT shall post annually the list of the Transmission Elements and identify if the TSP has agreed to provide the rating on the MIS Secure Area.
3.10.8.5	Transmission Service Provider Responsibilities Related to Dynamic Ratings
(1)	Each TSP shall:
(a)	Provide ERCOT with tables of ratings for different ambient temperatures for Transmission Elements, as requested by ERCOT.
(b)	Submit within two months a temperature adjusted rating table when a request is received from ERCOT unless multiple requests are made by ERCOT within the two-month period or unusual circumstances prevent the request from being accommodated in a timely fashion.  Such circumstances must be explained to ERCOT in writing and must be posted by ERCOT on the MIS Secure Area within five Business Days of receipt.
(c)	Provide Real-Time temperatures for each Weather Zone in which the TSP has existing dynamically rated transmission equipment, or alternatively provide rating updates for each temperature-adjusted line rating updated at least once every ten minutes.
3.10.9	State Estimator Requirements
(1)	The appropriate TAC subcommittee shall coordinate with Market Participants to ensure a common understanding of the level of State Estimator performance required to enable LMP calculation and address the State Estimator’s ability to detect, correct, or otherwise accommodate communications system failures, failed data points, stale data condition codes, and missing or inaccurate measurements to the extent these capabilities contribute to LMP accuracy and State Estimator performance or as needed to meet reliability requirements.
3.10.9.1	Considerations for State Estimator Requirements
(1)	In maintaining the State Estimator requirements, the following may be considered:
(a)	Desired confidence levels of State Estimator results;
(b)	Measurement requirements to estimate power injections and withdrawals at transmission voltage Electrical Buses defined in the SCED transmission model, which may provide for variations in criteria based on:
(i)	The number of Transmission Elements connected to a given transmission voltage Electrical Bus;
(ii)	The peak demand of the Load connected to a transmission voltage Electrical Bus;
(iii)	The total of Resource capacity connected to a transmission voltage Electrical Bus;
(iv)	The nominal transmission voltage level of an Electrical Bus;
(v)	The number of Electrical Buses with injections or withdrawals along a circuit between currently monitored transmission voltage Electrical Bus;
(vi)	Connection of Loads along a continuous, non-branching circuit that may be combined for modeling purposes;
(vii)	The quantity of Load at an Electrical Bus that may have its connection to the transmission system automatically transferred to an Electrical Bus other than the one to which it is normally connected (rollover operation);
(vii)	Electrical proximity to more than one Resource Node;
(viii)	Degree or quality of continued observability following the loss of telemetry measurements resulting from a common mode failure of telemetry-related equipment (i.e., an N-1 telemetry condition); and
(ix)	Other parameters or circumstances, as appropriate;
(c)	Sensitivity of State Estimator results with respect to variations in input parameters;
(d)	Reasonable safeguards to assure State Estimator results are calculated on a non-discriminatory basis; and
(e)	Other parameters as deemed appropriate.
3.10.9.2	State Estimator Data
(1)	ERCOT uses a State Estimator to produce Load flow base cases, which are used to analyze the reliability of the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Accurate and redundant telemetry and an accurate transmission power system model are required by the State Estimator in order to produce an optimal estimation of the transmission power system state.  State Estimator results are used in contingency analysis, congestion management, and other network analysis Real-Time sequence functions.
3.10.9.3	Telemetry Status and Analog Measurements Data
(1)	Good telemetry status and analog measurements data for the transmission power system together with an accurate model of the ERCOT System are processed by the State Estimator to provide an optimal estimate of the ERCOT System state at a given point in time while filtering minor measurement errors and detecting gross errors.  The quality and availability of telemetry provided to ERCOT is important to the performance of the ERCOT State Estimator.
(2)	Telemetry is not needed at every node of the ERCOT System to arrive at a good estimate of the ERCOT System’s state. State Estimator performance must meet the performance requirements set forth in Section 3.10.9.4, State Estimator Performance Requirements, unless otherwise provided for in the Operating Guides.
(3)	Beyond general telemetry performance criteria there are more stringent criteria needed at locations where state estimates are critically important, including, but not limited to, locations where reliability, security, and market impacts are of heightened concern.
3.10.9.4	State Estimator Performance Requirements
(1)	The State Estimator shall converge 98% of runs during a one month period.
(2)	For MW flows on Transmission Elements identified by ERCOT as causing 80% of congestion costs in the latest year for which data is available, the residual difference between State Estimator results and power flow results shall be less than 3% of the associated element Emergency Rating on at least 95% of samples measured in a one month period.  
(3)	For Transmission Elements identified by ERCOT as causing 80% of all congestion costs in the latest year for which data is available, the difference between the telemetry value (MW) and the State Estimator value (MW) shall be less than 3% of the associated element Emergency Rating on at least 95% of samples measured in a one month period. 
(4)	For the 20 most important station voltage points, as designated by ERCOT and approved by ROS, the telemetered voltage minus State Estimator voltage shall be within 2% of the telemetered voltage measurement for at least 95% of samples measured during a one month period.  
(5)	For all Transmission Elements 100 kV and above, the difference between the State Estimator solution (MW) and the SCADA measurement will be less than ten MW or 10% of the associated Emergency Rating (whichever is greater) on 99.5% of samples measured during a one month period.  ERCOT shall report all equipment failing this test to the associated TSP who shall repair such equipment no later than ten days following detection by ERCOT.
(6)	ERCOT shall post the State Estimator performance requirements contained in this Section on the MIS Secure Area.
3.10.9.5	ERCOT Directives
(1)	ERCOT shall work with the TSP or QSE to resolve telemetry and/or model problems in accordance with telemetry requirements prior to directing additional equipment.
(2)	In the event of failure to meet the requirements in paragraphs (2) or (3) of Section 3.10.9.4, State Estimator Performance Requirements, ERCOT may direct additional telemetry to be installed on elements contributing most to 80% of congestion costs for the latest year for which data is available.  If the TSP or QSE disputes the request for additional telemetry, pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 3.10.7.5.9, ERCOT Requests for Telemetry, the TSP or QSE may provide an alternative proposal.
(3)	ERCOT shall enforce the requirements of paragraph (5) of Section 3.10.7.5.2, Continuous Telemetry of the Real-Time Measurements of Bus Load, Voltages, Tap Position, and Flows, by alarming any sum of flow around a bus that is more than (a) 5% of the largest normal line rating connected to the bus, or (b) five MW, whichever is greater, and requesting that the applicable TSP or QSE correct the failure.
(4)	ERCOT shall consider the quality codes sent by the data provider in determining how confidence factors are assigned for the data to be used in the State Estimator.  Valid and manual quality codes as defined in Section 3.10.7.5.8.1, Data Quality Codes, shall be considered as good quality.  Quality codes sent as not good quality shall be considered at a lower confidence.
3.10.9.6	Telemetry and State Estimator Performance Monitoring
(1)	ERCOT shall monitor the performance of the State Estimator, Network Security Analysis, SCED, and LMP Calculator.  ERCOT shall post a monthly report of these items on the MIS Secure Area.  ERCOT shall notify affected TSPs and QSEs of any lapses of observability of the transmission system.
[NPRR857 and NPRR1240:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities for NPRR857; or upon system implementation for NPRR1240:]
(1)	ERCOT shall monitor the performance of the State Estimator, Network Security Analysis, SCED, and LMP Calculator.  ERCOT shall post a monthly report of these items on the MIS Secure Area, except for reports of State Estimator convergence rates that ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT shall notify affected TSPs, QSEs, or DCTOs of any lapses of observability of the transmission system.
3.11	Transmission Planning
3.11.1	Overview
(1)	Project endorsement through the ERCOT regional planning process is intended to support, to the extent applicable, a finding by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) that a project is necessary for the service, accommodation, convenience, or safety of the public within the meaning of Public Utility Regulatory Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 37.056 (Vernon 1998 and Supp. 2007) (PURA) and P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.101, Certification Criteria. 
3.11.2	Planning Criteria
(1)	ERCOT and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) shall evaluate the need for transmission system improvements and shall evaluate the relative value of alternative improvements based on established technical and economic criteria. 
(2)	The technical reliability criteria are established by the Planning Guide, Operating Guides, and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.  ERCOT and TSPs shall strongly endeavor to meet these criteria, identify current and future violations thereof and initiate solutions necessary to ensure continual compliance.
(3)	ERCOT shall attempt to meet these reliability criteria as economically as possible and shall actively study the need for economic projects to meet this goal.  
(4)	For economic projects, the net economic benefit of a proposed project, or set of projects, will be assessed over the project’s life based on the net benefit that is reasonably expected to accrue from the project as demonstrated through the production cost savings test or the congestion cost savings test.  The current set of financial assumptions upon which the revenue requirement calculations for these tests are based will be reviewed annually, updated as necessary by ERCOT, and posted on the ERCOT website.  The expected economic benefits are based on chronological simulations of the security-constrained unit commitment and economic dispatch of the generators connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid to serve the expected ERCOT System Load over the planning horizon, comparing simulations with and without the project.  These market simulations are intended to provide a reasonable representation of how the ERCOT System is expected to be operated over the simulated time period.  From a practical standpoint, it is not feasible to perform these simulations for the entire 30 to 40 year expected life of the project.  Therefore, the economic benefits are projected over the period for which simulations are feasible, which is the planning horizon established in Planning Guide Section 3.1.1.2, Regional Transmission Plan, and a qualitative assessment is made of whether the factors driving the economic benefits due to the project can reasonably be expected to continue.  
(5)	To determine the economic benefits of a proposed project under the production cost savings test, the revenue requirement of the capital cost of the project is compared to the expected savings in system production costs resulting from the project over the expected life of the project.  Outputs from the market simulations described in paragraph (4) above will be used to provide an estimate of the expected reduction in total system-wide production cost due to the project.  Other adequately quantifiable and ongoing direct and indirect costs and benefits to the transmission system attributable to the project may be considered as appropriate.  If the levelized ERCOT-wide annual production cost savings equals or exceeds the first-year annual revenue requirement of the transmission project, the project will be deemed to demonstrate sufficient economic benefit and will be recommended.  ERCOT will publish requested non-confidential modeling inputs, assumptions, and outputs utilized in the production cost savings test if that information can be feasibly provided.
(6)	To determine the economic benefits of a proposed project under the congestion cost savings test, the revenue requirement of the capital cost of the project is compared to the expected system-wide consumer energy cost reduction resulting from the project over the expected life of the project.  Outputs from the market simulations described in paragraph (4) above will be used to provide an estimate of the expected reduction in total system-wide consumer energy cost due to the project.  In the market simulations, system-wide consumer energy cost will be calculated using hourly load in MWh multiplied by hourly load nodal energy prices in $/MWh.  Other adequately quantifiable and ongoing direct and indirect costs and benefits to the transmission system attributable to the project may be considered as appropriate.  If the levelized system-wide consumer energy cost reduction equals or exceeds the average of the first three years’ annual revenue requirement for the project, the project will be deemed to demonstrate sufficient economic benefit and will be recommended.  ERCOT will publish requested non-confidential modeling inputs, assumptions, and outputs utilized in the congestion cost savings test if that information can be feasibly provided.
3.11.3	Regional Planning Group
(1)	ERCOT shall lead and facilitate a Regional Planning Group (RPG) to consider and review proposed projects to address transmission constraints and other ERCOT System needs.  The RPG will be a non-voting, consensus-based organization focused on identifying needs, identifying potential solutions, communicating varying viewpoints and reviewing analyses related to the ERCOT Transmission Grid in the planning horizon.  Participation in the RPG is required of all TSPs and is open to all Market Participants, consumers, other stakeholders, and PUCT Staff.  
3.11.4	Regional Planning Group Project Review Process
3.11.4.1	Project Submission
(1)	Any stakeholder may initiate an RPG Project Review through the submission of a document describing the scope of the proposed transmission project to ERCOT.  Projects should be submitted with sufficient lead-time to allow the RPG Project Review to be completed prior to the date on which the project must be initiated by the designated TSP.  
(2)	Stakeholders may submit projects for RPG Project Review within any project Tier.  All transmission projects in Tiers 1, 2 and 3 shall be submitted.  TSPs are not required to submit Tier 4 projects for RPG Project Review, but shall include any Tier 4 projects in the cases used for development of the Regional Transmission Plan. 
(3)	All system improvements that are necessary for the project to achieve the system performance improvement, or to correct the system performance deficiency, for which the project is intended should be included into a single project submission.
(4) 	Facility ratings updates are not considered a project and are not subject to RPG Project Review.
3.11.4.1.1	Project Submissions Based on Unsubstantiated Load
(1)	Following the submission of a project by a TSP, if ERCOT determines that the asserted need for a Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 project is based in part or in whole on Unsubstantiated Load, ERCOT shall notify the submitting TSP and the RPG, and neither ERCOT nor the RPG will conduct any further review of the project.
3.11.4.2	Project Comment Process
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct a comment process which is open to the stakeholders for all proposed Tier 1, 2 and 3 projects.  The proposer of the project will have a reasonable period of time, as established by ERCOT, to answer questions and respond to comments submitted during this process.  The Planning Guide provides details of this process. 
3.11.4.3	Categorization of Proposed Transmission Projects
(1)	ERCOT classifies all proposed transmission projects into one of four categories (or Tiers).  Each Tier is defined so that projects with a similar cost and impact on reliability and the ERCOT market are grouped into the same Tier.  For Tier classification, the total estimated cost of the project shall be used which includes costs borne by another party.
(a) 	A project shall be classified as Tier 1 if the estimated capital cost is greater than or equal to $100,000,000, unless the project is considered to be a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below.
(b)	A project shall be classified as Tier 2 if the estimated capital cost is less than $100,000,000 and a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) is required, unless the project is considered to be a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below.
(c)	A project shall be classified as Tier 3 if any of the following are true:
(i)	The estimated capital cost is less than $100,000,000 and greater than or equal to $25,000,000 and a CCN is not required, unless the project is considered to be a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below; or
(ii)	The estimated capital cost is less than $25,000,000, a CCN is not required, and the project includes 345 kV circuit reconductor of more than one mile, additional 345/138 kV autotransformer capacity, or a new 345 kV substation, unless the project is considered to be a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below.
(d)	A project with an estimated capital cost greater than or equal to $25,000,000 that is proposed for the purpose of replacing aged infrastructure or storm hardening shall be processed as a Tier 3 project and shall be reclassified as a Tier 4, neutral project upon ERCOT’s determination that any concerns, questions or objections raised during the comment process have been resolved satisfactorily.
(e)	A project shall be classified as Tier 4 if it does not meet the requirements to be classified as Tier 1, 2, or 3 or if it is considered a neutral project pursuant to paragraph (f) below.
(f)	A project shall be considered a neutral project if it consists entirely of:
(i)	The addition of or upgrades to radial transmission circuits; 
(ii)	The addition of equipment that does not affect the transfer capability of a circuit;
(iii)	Repair and replacement-in-kind projects; 
(iv)	Transmission Facilities needed to connect a new Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) to a new or existing substation on the existing ERCOT Transmission Grid, including the substation; 
(v)	The addition of static reactive devices; 
(vi)	A project to serve a new Load, unless such project would create a new transmission circuit connection between two stations (other than looping an existing circuit into the new Load-serving station);
(vii)	Replacement of failed equipment, even if it results in a ratings and/or impedance change; or
(viii)	Equipment upgrades resulting in only ratings changes.
(2)	ERCOT may use its reasonable judgment to increase the level of review of a proposed project (e.g., from Tier 3 to Tier 2) from that which would be strictly indicated by these criteria, based on stakeholder comments, ERCOT analysis or the system impacts of the project.
(a) 	A project with an estimated capital cost greater than or equal to $50,000,000 that requires a CCN shall be reclassified and processed as a Tier 1 project upon request by a Market Participant during the comment period per Planning Guide Section 3.1.5, Regional Planning Group Comment Process.
(3)	Any project that would be built by an Entity that is exempt (e.g., a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU)) from getting a CCN for transmission projects but would require a CCN if it were to be built by a regulated Entity will be treated as if the project would require a CCN for the purpose of defining the Tier of the project.
(4)	If during the course of ERCOT’s independent review of a project, the project scope changes, ERCOT may reclassify the project into the appropriate Tier.
3.11.4.4	Processing of Tier 4 Projects
(1)	For any project classified in Tier 4, ERCOT will not solicit comments from RPG, conduct any independent review, or provide any endorsement for the project. 
3.11.4.5	Processing of Tier 3 Projects
(1)	ERCOT shall accept a Tier 3 project if no concerns, questions or objections are provided during the project comment process.
(2)	If reasonable ERCOT or stakeholder concerns about a Tier 3 project cannot be resolved during the time period allotted by ERCOT, the project may be processed as a Tier 2 project, unless ERCOT assesses that reasonable progress is being made toward resolving these concerns.
3.11.4.6	Processing of Tier 2 Projects
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct an independent review of a submitted Tier 2 project as follows:
(a)	ERCOT’s independent review shall consist of studies and analyses necessary for ERCOT to make its assessment of whether the proposed project is needed and whether the proposed project is the preferred solution to the identified system performance deficiency that the project is intended to resolve;
(b)	ERCOT shall consider all comments received during the project comment process and factor reasonable comments into its independent review of the project;
(c)	ERCOT will attempt to complete its independent review for a project in 120 days or less.  If ERCOT is unable to complete its independent review based on RPG input within 120 days, ERCOT shall notify the RPG of the expected completion time;
(d)	ERCOT may, at its discretion, discuss submitted transmission projects at meetings of the RPG in order to obtain additional input into its independent review; and
(e)	ERCOT shall prepare a written report documenting the results of its independent review and recommendation on the project and shall distribute this report to the RPG.
3.11.4.7	Processing of Tier 1 Projects
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct an independent review of a submitted Tier 1 project as follows:
(a)	ERCOT’s independent review will consist of studies and analyses necessary for ERCOT to make its assessment of whether the proposed project is needed and whether the proposed project is the preferred solution to the identified system performance deficiency that the project is intended to resolve;
(b)	ERCOT will consider all comments received during the project comment process and factor reasonable comments into its independent review of the project;
(c)	ERCOT will attempt to complete its independent review for a project in 150 days or less.  If ERCOT is unable to complete its independent review based on RPG input within 150 days, ERCOT shall notify the RPG of the expected completion time;
(d)	ERCOT may, at its discretion, discuss submitted transmission projects at meetings of the RPG in order to obtain additional input into its independent review; and
(e)	ERCOT shall prepare a written report documenting the results of its independent review and recommendation on the project and shall distribute this report to the RPG.
(2)	Tier 1 projects require ERCOT Board endorsement.
3.11.4.8	Determine Designated Providers of Transmission Additions
(1)	Upon completion of an independent review, ERCOT shall determine the designated TSPs for any recommended transmission additions.  The designated TSP for a recommended transmission addition will be the TSP that owns the end point(s) of the recommended transmission addition.  The designated TSP can agree to provide the recommended transmission addition or delegate the responsibility to another TSP.  If different TSPs own the two end points of a recommended transmission addition, ERCOT will designate them as co-providers of the recommended transmission addition, and they can decide between themselves what parts of the recommended transmission addition they will each provide.  If they cannot agree, ERCOT will determine their responsibility following a meeting with the parties.  If a designated TSP agrees to provide a recommended transmission addition but does not diligently pursue the recommended transmission addition (during the time frame before a CCN is filed, if required) in a manner that will meet the required in-service date, then upon concurrence of the ERCOT Board, ERCOT will solicit interest from TSPs through the RPG and will designate an alternate TSP.
3.11.4.9	Regional Planning Group Acceptance and ERCOT Endorsement
(1)	For Tier 3 projects, successful resolution of all comments received from ERCOT and stakeholders during the project comment process will result in RPG acceptance of the proposed project.  An RPG acceptance letter shall be sent to the TSP(s) for the project, the project submitter (if different from the TSP(s)), and posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.  For Tier 2 projects, ERCOT’s recommendation as a result of its independent review of the proposed project will constitute ERCOT endorsement of the need for a project except as noted in paragraph (3) below.  For Tier 1 projects, ERCOT’s endorsement is obtained upon affirmative vote of the ERCOT Board except as noted in paragraph (3) below.  An ERCOT endorsement letter shall be sent to the TSP(s) for the project, the project submitter (if different from the TSP(s)), and the PUCT, and posted on the MIS Secure Area upon receipt of ERCOT’s endorsement for Tier 1 and Tier 2 projects except as noted in paragraph (3) below.
(2)	Following the completion of its independent review, ERCOT shall present all Tier 1 projects for which it finds a need to the ERCOT Board and shall provide a report to the ERCOT Board explaining the basis for its determination of need.  Prior to presenting the project to the ERCOT Board, ERCOT shall present the project to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for review and comment.  Comments from TAC shall be included in the presentation to the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT will make a reasonable effort to make these presentations to TAC and the ERCOT Board at the next regularly scheduled meetings following completion of its independent review of the project.
(3)	If a TSP asserts a need for a proposed Tier 1 or Tier 2 project based in part or in whole on its own planning criteria, then ERCOT’s independent review shall also consider whether a reliability need exists under the TSP’s criteria.  If ERCOT identifies a reliability need under the TSP’s criteria, then ERCOT shall recommend a project that would address that need as well as any reliability need identified under NERC or ERCOT criteria, but shall explicitly state in the independent review report that ERCOT has assumed the TSP’s criteria are valid and that an assessment of the validity of the TSP’s criteria is beyond the scope of ERCOT’s responsibility.  ERCOT or the ERCOT Board may provide a qualified endorsement of such a project if ERCOT determines that it is justified in part under ERCOT or NERC criteria, as described in paragraph (1) above.  However, neither ERCOT nor the ERCOT Board shall endorse a project that is determined to be needed solely to meet a TSP’s criteria.
3.11.4.10	Modifications to ERCOT Endorsed Projects
(1)	If the TSP for an ERCOT-endorsed project determines a need to make a significant change to the facilities included in the project (such as the line endpoint(s), number of circuits, voltage level, decrease in rating or similar major aspect of the project), the TSP shall notify ERCOT of the details of that change prior to filing a CCN application, if required, or prior to beginning the final design of the project if no CCN application is required.  If ERCOT concurs that the proposed change is significant, the change shall be processed as a Tier 3 project, unless ERCOT determines the project should more appropriately be processed in another Tier.
(2) 	For economic-driven projects, if a TSP determines that the estimated project cost has increased by more than 10% over the cost described in ERCOT’s endorsement, the TSP shall notify RPG prior to filing a CCN application if required, or prior to beginning the final design of the project if no CCN application is required, and provide an explanation for the cost increase.  For comparison purposes, the cost of the route that best meets PUCT criteria will be used.
3.11.4.11	Customer or Resource Entity Funded Transmission Projects
(1)       If an affected TSP elects to pursue a Customer or Resource Entity funded transmission project that would have been classified as a Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 project for RPG Project Review, the TSP(s) shall conduct a reliability impact assessment of the proposed transmission project and shall submit a report summarizing the results of the reliability impact assessment for RPG Project Review.  Such projects shall be processed according to their Tier classification and shall be reclassified as a Tier 4, neutral project upon ERCOT’s determination that any concerns, questions or objections raised during the comment process have been resolved satisfactorily. 
(2)	ERCOT’s independent review of a Tier 1 or Tier 2 Customer or Resource Entity funded transmission project will be limited to assessing the reliability and congestion impact of the proposed project and submitting a report summarizing the results and findings to RPG for review and discussion.  ERCOT will not endorse the project and will not present the project to the ERCOT Board.  However, ERCOT may recommend the project not be implemented or recommend changes to the project scope if, in ERCOT’s sole discretion, the project negatively impacts the reliability or congestion of the ERCOT System.
(3)	Customer or Resource Entity funded Tier 4 projects do not need to go through this review process.
3.11.5	Transmission Service Provider and Distribution Service Provider Access to Interval Data
(1)	ERCOT shall provide specific interval data for Load and generation to TSPs and/or Distribution Service Providers (DSPs), upon request, in accordance with confidentiality as defined in Section 1.3, Confidentiality.
(a)	The TSP’s and/or DSP’s request for interval data shall identify the reason for requesting the information in regards to impact to the planning process (e.g. build power flow cases, conduct a specific study, etc.).
(b)	ERCOT shall evaluate the TSP and/or DSP request and validate reasons provided. 
(c)	Upon ERCOT validation of the TSP and/or DSP request, the data provided shall include meter data measured at points of injection and points of delivery which will measurably impact the TSP’s and/or DSP’s planning and operations as determined by ERCOT (e.g., determination of the TSP’s and/or DSP’s system Load or power flows). 
(d) 	If ERCOT determines that the request is invalid and denies it, ERCOT shall provide the reasoning for denying the request.
3.11.6	Generation Interconnection Process
(1)	The generation interconnection process facilitates the interconnection of new generation units in the ERCOT Region by assessing the transmission upgrades necessary for new generating units to operate reliably.  The process to study interconnecting new generation or modifying an existing generation interconnection to the ERCOT Transmission Grid is covered in the Planning Guide.  The generation interconnection study process primarily addresses the direct connection of generation Facilities to the ERCOT Transmission Grid and directly-related projects.  Projects that are identified through this process and are regional in nature may be reviewed through the RPG Project Review process upon recommendation by the TSP or ERCOT, subject to the confidentiality provisions in Section 1.3, Confidentiality.
(2)	ERCOT shall perform an independent economic analysis of the Transmission Facilities needed to connect a new Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG to a new or existing substation on the existing ERCOT Transmission Grid, including the substation, that are identified through this process that are expected to cost more than $25,000,000.  This economic analysis is performed only for informational purposes; as such, no ERCOT endorsement will be provided.  The results of the economic analysis shall be included in the interconnection study posting.
(3)	Additional upgrades to the ERCOT Transmission Grid that might be cost-effective as a result of new or modified generation may be initiated by any stakeholder through the RPG Project Review procedure described in Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, at the appropriate time, subject to the confidentiality provisions of the generation interconnection procedure.
3.12	Load Forecasting
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and use Load forecasts to serve operations and planning objectives.  
(a)	ERCOT shall update and post hourly on the ERCOT website, a “Seven-Day Load Forecast” as described in Section 3.12.1, Seven-Day Load Forecast, that provides forecasted hourly Load over the next 168 hours for each of the Weather Zones and for each of the Forecast Zones.  
(b)	ERCOT shall develop and post monthly on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area a “36-Month Load Forecast” that provides a daily minimum and maximum Load forecast for the next 36 months for the ERCOT Region, for each of the Weather Zones, and for each of the Forecast Zones.  The 36-Month Load Forecast is used in the Outage coordination process and for Resource adequacy reporting.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	ERCOT shall develop and post monthly on the ERCOT website a “36-Month Load Forecast” that provides a daily minimum and maximum Load forecast for the next 36 months for the ERCOT Region, for each of the Weather Zones, and for each of the Forecast Zones.  The 36-Month Load Forecast is used in the Outage coordination process and for Resource adequacy reporting.

[NPRR1004 and NPRR1240:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (c) below upon system implementation:]
(c)	ERCOT shall generate and post daily on the ERCOT website Load distribution factors that provide hourly distribution for non-Private Use Network Loads by means of the Mid-Term Load Forecast (MTLF).  Private Use Network Loads will be generated separately.  If ERCOT decides, in its sole discretion, to change the Load distribution factors for reasons such as anticipated weather events or holidays, ERCOT shall select representative conditions as an input reasonably reflecting the anticipated Load in the Operating Day.  ERCOT may also modify the Load distribution factors to account for predicted differences in network topology between the Load forecast and Operating Day.  ERCOT may set auto error correction settings and apply Load forecast validation to better represent Load Profiles.  Private Use Network Load distribution factor data is redacted from the ERCOT website postings and all self-serve Load’s distribution factors are set to zero when the data is used by the downstream applications.
(2)	ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website an Intra-Hour Load Forecast (IHLF) that provides a rolling two hour five minute forecast of ERCOT-wide Load.
3.12.1	Seven-Day Load Forecast
(1)	ERCOT shall use the Seven-Day Load Forecast to predict hourly Loads for the next 168 hours based on current weather forecast parameters within each Weather Zone.  Preparation for Day-Ahead Operations requires an accurate forecast of the Loads for which generation capacity must be secured.  The Seven-Day Load Forecast must have a “self-training” mode that allows ERCOT to review historic Load data and provide the ability to retrain the Seven-Day Load Forecast algorithm.
[NPRR975:  Insert paragraphs (a) and (b) below upon system implementation:]
(a) 	ERCOT will use a variety of Load forecast models and will select the Load forecast model that best fits the expected conditions for each hour of the next 168 hours as the Seven-Day Load Forecast for that hour and may update this selection as expected conditions change.    
(b)	If the selected forecast used at the time of the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) for the peak Demand hour of any of the next seven days is above or below the average of the forecast models for that hour by the greater of 2000 MW or 4% of the average of the forecast models for that hour, ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website an explanation of why the outlier Load forecast model was selected for that hour.
(2)	The inputs for the Seven-Day Load Forecast are as follows:
(a)	Hourly forecasted weather parameters for the weather stations within the Weather Zones, which are updated at least once per hour; and
(b)	Training information based on historic hourly integrated Weather Zone Loads.
(3)	ERCOT shall review the forecast suggested by Seven-Day Load Forecast and shall use its judgment, if necessary, to modify the result prior to implementation in the Ancillary Service Capacity Monitor, Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC), Hour-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC), and Resource adequacy reporting.
3.12.2	Study Areas
(1)	ERCOT shall develop and use Study Areas for Load forecasting and study purposes, and will provide the Load forecast data to the market.  A list of Study Areas shall be available on the ERCOT website.
3.12.3	Seven-Day Study Area Load Forecast
(1)	ERCOT shall develop and post hourly on the ERCOT website a “Seven-Day Study Area Load Forecast” to predict the hourly Loads for the next 168 hours based on current weather forecast parameters within each Study Area.  
(a)	The forecast referenced in paragraph (1) above will not affect the values within the “Seven-Day Load Forecast” by Weather Zone and/or Forecast Zone.
3.13	Renewable Production Potential Forecasts
(1)	ERCOT shall produce forecasts of Renewable Production Potential (RPP) for Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) and PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) to be used as an input into the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and Hour-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC).  ERCOT shall produce the forecasts using information provided by WGR/PVGR Entities, meteorological information, and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  WGR and PVGR Entities shall install telemetry at their respective Resources and transmit the ERCOT-specified site-specific meteorological information to ERCOT.  WGR and PVGR Entities shall also provide detailed equipment status at the WGR/PVGR facility as specified by ERCOT to support the RPP forecast.  ERCOT shall post forecasts for each WGR and PVGR to the Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) representing WGRs and/or PVGRs on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.  QSEs shall use the ERCOT-provided forecasts for WGRs/PVGRs throughout the Day-Ahead and Operating Day for applicable markets and Reliability Unit Commitments (RUCs).  Similar requirements for run-of-the-river hydro must be developed as needed. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall produce forecasts of Renewable Production Potential (RPP) for Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs), PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs), and the intermittent renewable generation component of each DC-Coupled Resource to be used as an input into the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and Hour-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC).  ERCOT shall produce the forecasts using information provided by WGRs, PVGRs, and DC-Coupled Resources; meteorological information; and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  A Resource Entity with a WGR, PVGR, or DC-Coupled Resource shall install equipment to enable telemetry of site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the RPP forecast, and the Resource Entity’s QSE shall telemeter such information and Resource status information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall post forecasts for each WGR and PVGR and for the intermittent renewable generation component of each DC-Coupled Resource to the MIS Certified Area for the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing that WGR, PVGR, or DC-Coupled Resource.  QSEs shall use the ERCOT-provided forecasts for WGRs, PVGRs, and DC-Coupled Resources in the Day-Ahead and throughout the Operating Day for applicable markets and Reliability Unit Commitments (RUCs).  Similar requirements for run-of-the-river hydro must be developed as needed.
(2)	ERCOT shall develop cost-effective tools or services to forecast energy production from Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) with technical assistance from QSEs scheduling IRRs.  ERCOT shall use its best efforts to develop accurate and unbiased forecasts, as limited by the availability of relevant explanatory data.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website objective criteria and thresholds for unbiased, accurate forecasts within five Business Days of change.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall develop cost-effective tools or services to forecast energy production from Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) and from the intermittent renewable generation component of each DC-Coupled Resource with technical assistance from QSEs representing such Resources.  ERCOT shall use its best efforts to develop accurate and unbiased forecasts, as limited by the availability of relevant explanatory data.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website objective criteria and thresholds for unbiased, accurate forecasts within five Business Days of change.
3.14	Contracts for Reliability Resources and Emergency Response Service Resources
(1)	ERCOT shall procure Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Service, Black Start Service (BSS) or Emergency Response Service (ERS) through Agreements.
[NPRR885:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall procure Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Service, Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service, Black Start Service (BSS), or Emergency Response Service (ERS) through Agreements.
3.14.1	Reliability Must Run
(1)	RMR Service is the use by ERCOT, under contracts with Resource Entities, of capacity and energy from Generation Resources that otherwise would not operate and that are necessary to provide voltage support, stability or management of localized transmission constraints under applicable reliability criteria, where market solutions do not exist.
(a)	Upon receiving a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) from a Resource Entity as described in Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, ERCOT may begin procurement of RMR Service under this Section.  
(b)	Before entering into an RMR Agreement, ERCOT shall assess alternatives to the proposed RMR Agreement.  ERCOT shall evaluate and present in a written report posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area the information in items (i) through (iv) below.  ERCOT is not limited in the number of additional scenarios it chooses to evaluate.  The written report shall include an explanation as to why the items below are insufficient, either alone or in combination, to fill the requirement that will be met by the potential RMR Unit.  The report shall be posted in the time frame required under paragraph (5) of Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process.  The list of alternatives ERCOT must consider includes (as reasonable for each type of reliability concern identified):
(i)	Re-dispatch/reconfiguration through operator instruction;
(ii)	Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs) and Remedial Action Plans (RAPs);
(iii)	Remedial Action Schemes (RASs) initiated on unit trips or Transmission Facilities’ Outages; and
(iv)	Any other operational alternatives deemed viable by ERCOT.
(c)	ERCOT shall minimize the use of RMR Units as much as practicable subject to the other provisions of these Protocols.  ERCOT may Dispatch an RMR Unit at any time for ERCOT System security.    
(d)	Each RMR Unit must meet technical requirements specified in Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(e)	ERCOT may execute RMR Agreements for no less than one month and no more than one year, with one exception.  ERCOT may execute an RMR Agreement for a term longer than 12 months if the Resource Entity must make a significant capital expenditure to meet environmental regulations or to ensure availability to continue operating the RMR Unit so as to make an RMR Agreement in excess of 12 months appropriate, in ERCOT’s opinion.  The term of a multi-year RMR Agreement must take into account the appropriate RMR exit strategy discussed in Section 3.14.1.4, Exit Strategy from an RMR Agreement.  In the event ERCOT chooses to contract for an RMR Unit for longer than one year, ERCOT shall annually re-evaluate the need for the RMR Unit under the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) above.  If ERCOT determines the RMR Unit is no longer needed, ERCOT shall enter into exit negotiations with the contract signatories to attempt to exit the contract early.  However, ERCOT shall not enter into such negotiations until a Market Notice is issued providing the anticipated RMR exit time frame.  The RMR standard Agreement is included in Section 22, Attachment B, Standard Form Reliability Must-Run Agreement.  ERCOT shall post each RMR Agreement in its entirety, including amendments or modifications thereto, within five Business Days of execution on the MIS Secure Area.
(f)	A Generation Resource is eligible for RMR status based on criteria established by ERCOT indicating its operation is necessary to support ERCOT System reliability according to the Operating Guides.  A combined-cycle generation Facility must be treated as a single unit for RMR purposes unless the combustion turbine and the steam turbine can operate separately.  If the steam turbine and combustion turbine can operate separately, and the steam turbine is powered by waste heat from more than one combustion turbine, the combustion turbine accepted for RMR Service and a proportionate part of the steam turbine must be treated as a single unit for RMR purposes.  If the combustion turbine accepted for RMR Service can operate separately from the steam turbine, and only the combustion turbine is accepted as an RMR Unit, the RMR energy price will be reduced by the value of the combustion turbine’s waste heat calculated at the Fuel Index Price (FIP), except when the steam turbine is Off-Line.
(g)	A Resource Entity cannot be compelled to enter into an RMR Agreement.  A Resource Entity that owns or controls a Generation Resource that is uneconomic to remain in service can voluntarily petition ERCOT for contracted RMR status by following the process in this subsection.  ERCOT shall determine whether the Generation Resource is necessary for system reliability based on the criteria set forth in this Section.
(h)	ERCOT must contract for the entire capacity of each RMR Unit.
(i)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area all information relative to the use of RMR Units including energy deployed monthly.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (i) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(i)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website all information relative to the use of RMR Units including energy deployed monthly.
(j)	The Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit may not use the RMR Unit for:
(i)	Participating in the bilateral energy market;
(ii)	Self-providing of energy except for plant auxiliary Load obligations under the RMR Agreement; and
(iii)	Providing of Ancillary Service to any Entity.
(k)	ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on the need for an RMR Unit prior to entering negotiations for the RMR Unit.  Such Market Notice shall include the link to the ERCOT final RMR evaluation, the Resource name and unit code, the name of the Resource Entity, the name of the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for the Resource, the Resource MW rating by Season, and potential duration of the RMR Agreement, including anticipated start and end dates.
(l)	ERCOT shall, through the issuance of Market Notices, provide the same information, contemporaneously, about the need for, or elimination of an RMR Unit to all registered Market Participants, including QSEs and Resource Entities with RMR Units.
3.14.1.1	Notification of Suspension of Operations
(1)	Except for the occurrence of a Forced Outage, a Resource Entity must notify ERCOT in writing no less than 150 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to cease or suspend operation of a Generation Resource for a period of greater than 180 days.  If a Generation Resource is to be mothballed on a seasonal basis, the Resource Entity must notify ERCOT in writing no less than 90 days prior to the suspension date and identify its Seasonal Operation Period.  
(2)	The Resource Entity shall submit a completed Part I and Part II of the NSO (found in Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations).  The Resource Entity may also complete Part III of the NSO and submit it along with Parts I and II, or may wait to submit Part III up to ten days after ERCOT makes a determination that the proposed suspension of the Generation Resource would result in a performance deficiency for which the Generation Resource has a material impact.  Part I of the NSO must include the attestation of an officer of the Resource Entity that the Generation Resource is uneconomic to remain in service as currently designated and will be unavailable for Dispatch by ERCOT for a period specified in the NSO.  
(3)	A Resource Entity ceasing or suspending operations as a result of a Forced Outage lasting greater than 180 days shall notify ERCOT as soon as practicable by submitting an NSO.  If an NSO is submitted for a Generation Resource that is suspending operations for greater than 180 days due to a Forced Outage but is not indefinitely or permanently ceasing operations, then:
(a)	The Generation Resource will not be evaluated for RMR status;  
(b)	The NSO will not be posted on the ERCOT website, except that information contained in the NSO may be included in reports in accordance with Section 3.2.6.2.2, Total Capacity Estimate; and
(c)	ERCOT will not issue a Market Notice.
(4)	At least 60 days before the expiration of an existing RMR Agreement, the Resource Entity may apply to renew the RMR Agreement by submitting a new NSO (including both Part I and Part II).  Upon receipt of such a renewal request, ERCOT shall update and post to the MIS Secure Area studies as set forth in Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, within 15 Business Days. 
3.14.1.2	ERCOT Evaluation Process
(1)	Except as provided in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, upon receipt of an NSO under Section 3.14.1.1 ERCOT shall post the NSO on the ERCOT website and shall post on the MIS Secure Area all existing relevant studies and data and provide a Market Notice of the NSO and posting of the studies and data.
(2)	Within 21 days after receiving the NSO described in paragraph (1) above, unless otherwise notified by ERCOT that a shorter comment period is required, Market Participants may submit comments to ERCOT on whether the Generation Resource(s) referenced in the NSO is necessary to support ERCOT System reliability or should qualify for a multi-year RMR Agreement.  ERCOT shall consider and post all submitted comments on the MIS Secure Area.
(3)	ERCOT shall conduct a reliability analysis of the need for any Generation Resource(s) with a summer Seasonal net max sustainable rating greater than or equal to 20 MW to support ERCOT System reliability.  For Generation Resource(s) with a summer Seasonal net max sustainable rating less than 20 MW, ERCOT may conduct a reliability analysis if deemed appropriate by ERCOT following consultation with affected Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)).
(a)	ERCOT shall use a Load forecast consistent with current Regional Transmission Plan assumptions and methodologies for the appropriate season(s).  If additional new Generation Resources meet the criteria in Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, ERCOT shall include those additional Generation Resources with the appropriate seasonal ratings.  
(b)	If the NSO indicates that the Generation Resource(s) will decommission or suspend operation, or in the case of a Forced Outage, has permanently ceased operation, ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may perform transmission reliability analysis over a planning horizon as defined by the available base cases but not to exceed two years.
(c)	For purposes of the reliability analysis, ERCOT shall use the following criteria to identify a performance deficiency that is materially impacted by the Generation Resource:
(i)	Without the Generation Resource, there are one or more Transmission Facilities loaded above their Normal Rating under pre-contingency conditions.
(ii)	Without the Generation Resource, there is any instability or cascading for any of the following conditions:
(A)	Pre-contingency;
(B)	Normal system conditions followed by the contingency loss of a generating unit, transmission circuit, common tower outage, transformer, shunt device, or flexible alternating current transmission system (FACTS) device;
(C)	Unavailability of a generating unit, followed by Manual System Adjustments, followed by the contingency loss of a generating unit, transmission circuit, common tower outage, transformer, shunt device, or FACTS device; or
(D)	Unavailability of a 345/138 kV transformer, followed by Manual System Adjustments, followed by the contingency loss of a generating unit, transmission circuit, common tower outage, transformer, shunt device, or FACTS device.
(iii)	Without the Generation Resource, there are one or more Transmission Facilities loaded above 110% of the Emergency Rating under normal system conditions followed by the contingency loss of a generating unit, transmission circuit, common tower outage, transformer, shunt device, or FACTS device.
(iv)	For paragraphs (i) through (iii) above, the Generation Resource will only be deemed to have a material impact on a performance deficiency that is caused by a thermal overload(s) if the Generation Resource has a more than 2% unloading Shift Factor on the Transmission Facility(s) that is overloaded and more than 5% unloading impact on the Transmission Facility(s) that is overloaded.  For purposes herein, an unloading impact is a measure of a reduction in flow on a Transmission Facility as a percent of its Rating due to a unit injection of power from the Generation Resource.
(v)	ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, deviate from the above criteria in order to maintain ERCOT System reliability.  However, ERCOT shall present its reasons for deviating from the above criteria to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and ERCOT Board.
(d)	ERCOT, in consultation with affected TSP(s), may rely upon the results of past planning studies to determine if the Generation Resource is necessary to support ERCOT System reliability.  The past planning studies must have used the same or more restrictive reliability criteria than the criteria described in paragraph (c) above.
(e)	Additionally, ERCOT shall conduct any other analysis (e.g., operations studies) as required and shall post all study data and results and all analyses and its determination on the MIS Secure Area and issue a Market Notice of its determination.
(4)	Within 30 days after receiving the NSO, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice indicating the status of the reliability analysis referenced in paragraph (3) above.  The Market Notice will indicate one of the following:
(a)	ERCOT has completed its reliability analysis and the Generation Resource is not required to support ERCOT System reliability;
(b)	ERCOT has completed its reliability analysis and the analysis identifies a performance deficiency for which the Generation Resource has a material impact; or
(c)	ERCOT has not completed its reliability analysis and will need additional time to complete the assessment. 
(5)	Within 60 days after receiving Part I and Part II of the NSO, ERCOT shall complete its reliability analysis described in paragraph (3) above and shall issue a Market Notice describing the results of its reliability analysis if the results were not provided in the Market Notice issued under paragraph (4) above.  If ERCOT determines that the Generation Resource is not needed to support ERCOT System reliability, then the Generation Resource may cease or suspend operations according to the schedule in its NSO, unless ERCOT in its sole discretion permits the Generation Resource to suspend operations at an earlier date, and ERCOT shall note this in the Market Notice.
(6)	Within ten days after a determination by ERCOT that the proposed suspension of the Generation Resource would result in a performance deficiency on which the Generation Resource has a material impact, as described in this Section, ERCOT shall issue a “Request for Proposal” (RFP) for Must-Run Alternatives (MRAs).  ERCOT shall include in the RFP reasonably available information that would enable potential MRAs to assess the feasibility of submitting a proposal to provide a more cost effective alternative to the Generation Resource, including any known minimum technical requirements and/or operational characteristics required to eliminate the identified performance deficiency.  The MRA RFP shall specify the expected number of hours that an MRA would be needed during the contract period, and the hours of the day, by season, that the MRA would be required to be available.  ERCOT shall establish an RFP response schedule such that responses can be evaluated prior to 150 days after submittal of the NSO.
(7)	Within ten days after a determination by ERCOT that the proposed suspension of the Generation Resource would result in a performance deficiency on which the Generation Resource has a material impact, as described in this Section, the Resource Entity shall, if it has not already done so, complete and submit to ERCOT Part III of the NSO (Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations).  ERCOT shall post the Part III information on the ERCOT website.  Concurrently, the Generation Resource shall submit an initial estimated budget used in the calculation of the proposed Standby Cost and RMR fuel adder, prepared in accordance with Section 3.14.1.11, Budgeting Eligible Costs, and Section 3.14.1.20, Budgeting Fuel Costs, to ERCOT.  On or before the 11th day after the determination or the receipt of Part III of the NSO, whichever comes first, ERCOT and the Resource Entity shall begin good faith negotiations on an RMR Agreement.  These negotiations shall include the budgeting process for Eligible Costs and for fuel costs as detailed in Section 3.14.1.11 and Section 3.14.1.20.
(8)	ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on the status of the RMR Unit or MRA, including the start date, duration of the RMR or MRA Agreement, the Standby Cost ($/Hour) as applicable, and the amount of MW under contract, within 24 hours of signing an RMR or MRA Agreement with a Resource Entity.
(9)	Except in cases where the Generation Resource is to be mothballed on a seasonal basis, if, after 150 days following ERCOT’s receipt of Part I and Part II of the NSO, ERCOT has neither notified the Resource Entity that the continued operation of the Generation Resource is not required nor obtained ERCOT Board approval to enter into an RMR or MRA Agreement, then the Resource Entity may file a complaint with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) under subsection (e)(1) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.502, Pricing Safeguards in Markets Operated by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas.  If the Generation Resource is to be mothballed on a seasonal basis, then the Resource Entity may file such a complaint with the PUCT under subsection (e)(1) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.502 if ERCOT has neither notified the Resource Entity that the continued operation of the Generation Resource is not required nor obtained ERCOT Board approval to enter into an RMR Agreement within 90 days following ERCOT’s receipt of Part I and Part II of the NSO.
(10)	If the ERCOT Board approves entering into an RMR Agreement but ERCOT and the Resource Entity have not both executed the RMR Agreement by the date on which the Resource Entity intends to cease or suspend operation of the Generation Resource, then the Resource Entity shall maintain that Generation Resource(s) so that it is available for Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) commitment until no longer required to do so under subsection (e)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.502.  This paragraph does not apply to a Generation Resource that suspended operations due to a Forced Outage.
3.14.1.2.1	ERCOT Evaluation of Seasonal Mothball Status
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate requests to place Generation Resources on a seasonal mothball status pursuant to the guidelines provided in Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process, except as stated below.
(2)	Within 30 days after receiving the NSO described in Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice indicating the status of the reliability analysis described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.2.  The Market Notice will indicate one of the following:  
(a)	ERCOT has completed its reliability analysis and the Generation Resource is not required to support ERCOT System reliability during the portion of the year when the Generation Resource would be unavailable;
(b)	ERCOT has completed its reliability analysis and the analysis identifies a performance deficiency for which the Generation Resource has a material impact during the portion of the year when the Generation Resource would be unavailable; or
(c)	ERCOT has not completed its reliability analysis and will need additional time to complete the assessment.   
(3)	Within 60 days after receiving the NSO ERCOT shall complete its reliability analysis described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.2 and, if it has not already done so, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice stating whether the Generation Resource is required to support ERCOT System reliability during the portion of the year when the Generation Resource would be unavailable.
3.14.1.3	ERCOT Board Approval of RMR and MRA Agreements
(1)	If ERCOT determines that an RMR or MRA Agreement is a cost-effective solution to remedy a performance deficiency for which the suspending Generation Resource has a material impact as described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process, or if ERCOT has identified such a performance deficiency but has determined that entering into an RMR or MRA Agreement is not a cost-effective solution to that performance deficiency, then ERCOT shall present this finding to the ERCOT Board for approval.  In seeking such approval, ERCOT shall stipulate to the ERCOT Board that:
(a)	The Resource Entity provided a complete and timely NSO including a sworn attestation supporting its claim of pending Generation Resource closure;
(b)	ERCOT received all of the data necessary to evaluate the need for and provisions of the RMR or MRA Agreement, and that information was posted on the MIS Secure Area by ERCOT as it became available to ERCOT;
(c)	When executed, the signed RMR or MRA Agreement will comply with the ERCOT Protocols and be posted on the MIS Secure Area;
(d)	ERCOT evaluated:
(i)	The reasonable alternatives to a specific RMR Agreement as set forth in Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, and compared the alternatives against the feasibility, cost and reliability impacts of the signed RMR Agreement;
(ii)	The timeframe in which ERCOT expects each unit to be needed for reliability; and
(iii)	The specific type and scope of reliability concerns identified for each RMR Unit or MRA as applicable.
(2)	ERCOT shall execute the RMR or MRA Agreement as soon as feasible after receiving ERCOT Board approval to do so.
(3)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area, as they become available, unit-specific studies, reports, and data, by which ERCOT justified entering into the RMR or MRA Agreement.
3.14.1.4	Exit Strategy from an RMR Agreement
(1)	No later than 90 days after the execution of an RMR Agreement, ERCOT shall report to the Board and post on the MIS Secure Area a list of feasible alternatives that may, at a future time, be more cost-effective than the continued renewal of the existing RMR Agreement.  Through the ERCOT System planning process, ERCOT shall develop a list of potential alternatives to the service provided by the RMR Unit.  At a minimum, the list of potential alternatives that ERCOT must consider include, building new or expanding existing Transmission Facilities, installing voltage control devices, soliciting or buying by auction interruptible Load from Retail Electric Providers (REPs), or extending the existing RMR Agreement on an annual basis.  If a cost-effective alternative to the service provided by the RMR Unit is identified, ERCOT shall provide a proposed timeline to study and/or implement the alternative.
3.14.1.5	Evaluation of Alternatives
(1)	In evaluating responses to the RFP for MRAs, ERCOT shall not consider any response that, in ERCOT’s sole opinion, does not facially demonstrate that the proposed MRA meets the eligibility requirements specified in Section 3.14.4.1, Overview and Description of MRAs, and the availability criteria and other conditions specified in the RFP for MRAs.
(2)	ERCOT shall consider any of the following options to resolve an identified performance deficiency:
(a)	The Generation Resource proposed for suspension of operations;
(b)	All acceptable MRA proposals; and
(c)	Any transmission upgrades that can be implemented prior to the time period for which the performance deficiency has been identified.
(3)	ERCOT staff shall select the option or combination of options, if any, that most cost-effectively address the performance deficiency, as long as the cost of the selected options is justified given the possible impact to Customers due to the performance deficiency.  If ERCOT determines that no option cost-effectively resolves the performance deficiency, then ERCOT shall not select any option.  In selecting the most cost-effective option, ERCOT will consider the following factors:
(a)	The degree to which the option addresses the identified performance deficiency;
(b)	The total expected cost of each option; 
(c)	Expected unit performance of the Generation Resource proposed for suspension of operations, including start-up time, minimum run-time, minimum down-time, and historical unit outage data;
(d)	Operational limitations of proposed MRAs, including start-up times, minimum run-times, ramp periods, and return-to-service times;
(e)	Other operational constraints or operational benefits of the proposed option; and
(f)	Any other factors which ERCOT determines are relevant to the evaluation, and for which ERCOT can develop quantifiable criteria with which to evaluate all proposed options. 
(4)	In evaluating the expected impact to Customers due to the performance deficiency, ERCOT shall consider the following factors:
(a)	Expected amount of Customer Demand affected (MWh);
(b)	Expected number of hours during which Customers will be affected;
(c)	Number of Customers affected;
(d)	Possible additional Customer impacts due to unforeseen conditions, such as Generation Resource unavailability, transmission circuit Outages, or Load variation due to extreme weather; and
(e)	Potential economic impact to Customers.
(5)	ERCOT staff shall recommend the selected option or options to the ERCOT Board of Directors for approval, or shall recommend that the ERCOT Board of Directors decline to accept any option, if no eligible, cost-effective option has been identified.  ERCOT staff shall provide sufficient information to justify its recommendation.  The ERCOT Board of Directors may approve or reject the proposed recommendation, or may direct ERCOT staff to pursue an agreement to procure one or more options not proposed by ERCOT staff.
3.14.1.6	Transmission System Upgrades Associated with an RMR and/or MRA Exit Strategy
(1)	This Section applies only to RMR exit strategies corresponding to specific RMR or MRA Agreements that have not been terminated.
(a)	ERCOT and the TSP(s) responsible for constructing any upgrades to the Transmission Facilities that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy shall coordinate construction clearances necessary to allow timely completion of all planned Transmission Facilities upgrades.
(b)	The TSP(s) responsible for constructing upgrades to the Transmission Facilities that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy shall establish and send to ERCOT estimated Outage information, including completion dates and associated model information to ERCOT per Section 3.1.4, Communications Regarding Resource and Transmission Facilities Outages.  For purposes of this Section, a Transmission Facility upgrade will be considered initiated upon the TSP authorizing any expenditures on the upgrade including, but not limited to, material procurement, right-of-way acquisition, and regulatory approvals. 
(c)	Upon initiation of the project, the TSP(s) responsible for constructing upgrades relating to the Transmission Facilities that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy shall provide to ERCOT monthly updates of the project’s status, noting any acceleration or delay in planned completion date. ERCOT shall report this data through the MIS as described in Section 12.2, ERCOT Responsibilities. Within 60 days of the completion date shown in the Notice provided per Section 3.1.4, for the Transmission Facilities upgrades, the TSP shall coordinate more timely updates if the timeline changes significantly.  
(d)	Within ten Business Days after completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrades that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy, ERCOT shall publish a Market Notice of such completion and the effective date of termination of the associated RMR or MRA Agreement.
3.14.1.7	RMR or MRA Contract Termination
(1)	This Section applies only to RMR exit strategies corresponding to specific RMR or MRA Agreements that have not been terminated.
(2)	Once a suitable RMR or MRA exit strategy has been developed as defined in Section 3.14.1.4, Exit Strategy from an RMR Agreement, and the strategy has been approved by the ERCOT Board and the affected TSP(s), the TSP(s) responsible for the Transmission Facilities upgrades, when requested by ERCOT, shall submit to ERCOT:
(a)	A preliminary construction outage schedule necessary to complete the Transmission Facilities upgrades.  Submissions, changes, approvals, rejections, and withdrawals regarding the preliminary construction outage schedule shall be processed through the ERCOT Outage Scheduler on the ERCOT MIS.  Such construction outage schedule shall be updated monthly; or
(b)	A Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) application timeline for projects requiring such PUCT certification.  Once a CCN has been granted by the PUCT, the TSP(s) shall be required to meet the requirements in item (a) above.
(3)	ERCOT shall review and approve or reject each construction outage schedule as provided in accordance with procedures developed by ERCOT in compliance with Section 3.1, Outage Coordination. 
(4)	The TSP(s) responsible for the Transmission Facilities upgrades that are part of an RMR or MRA exit strategy shall provide to ERCOT a project status and an estimated project completion date within five Business Days of ERCOT’s request. 
(5)	If ERCOT determines that a mutually agreeable preliminary construction outage schedule can be accommodated during the fall, winter, or spring, ERCOT and the TSP shall collaborate to determine if the 90 day termination notice for the RMR and/or MRA can be issued as soon after the summer load Season of the preceding year as possible and publish a Market Notice of these terminations.  ERCOT and the TSP may give consideration to the risk of the decision to terminate the RMR and/or MRA Agreement and any options, such as RAPs and/or Mitigation Plans that could be used to mitigate transmission construction delays.
3.14.1.8	RMR and/or MRA Contract Extension
(1)	This Section applies only to RMR exit strategies corresponding to specific RMR or MRA Agreements that have not been terminated.
(a)	Forty-five days prior to the termination date of an existing RMR or MRA Agreement, pursuant to the 90-day termination notice as described in paragraph A(2) of Section 3, Term and Termination, of Section 22, Attachment B, Standard Form Reliability Must-Run Agreement, ERCOT shall assess the likelihood of completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade project(s) or other exit strategies necessary to allow termination of an existing RMR or MRA Agreement based on the updates of project status provided by the TSP(s).  If ERCOT determines that a delay in the termination date of the existing RMR or MRA Agreement is necessary to allow completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade(s), it shall provide written Notice to the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA of its intent to execute an extension to the existing RMR or MRA Agreement no later than 30 days prior to the planned termination date.  Within 24 hours of ERCOT providing this Notice to the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on its intent to execute an extension to the existing RMR or MRA Agreement.  The Market Notice must contain the name and seasonal MW ratings of the RMR Unit or MRA and the expected duration of the contract extension, including the expected termination date.  ERCOT shall notify the ERCOT Board of the extension at the ERCOT Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
(b)	Forty-five days prior to the expiration date of an existing RMR or MRA Agreement for which the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA has applied for renewal, ERCOT shall assess the likelihood of completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade project(s) necessary to eliminate the reliability need for a Resource with an existing RMR or MRA Agreement based on the updates of project status provided by the TSP(s).  If ERCOT determines that an extension of the existing RMR or MRA Agreement of no more than 90 days would allow completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade(s), it shall provide written Notice to the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA of its intent to execute an extension to the existing RMR or MRA Agreement no later than 30 days prior to the planned expiration date.  Within 24 hours of ERCOT providing this Notice to the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on its intent to execute an extension to the existing RMR or MRA Agreement.  The Market Notice must contain the name and seasonal MW ratings of the RMR Unit or MRA and the expected duration of the contract extension, including the expected termination date.  ERCOT shall notify the ERCOT Board of the extension at the ERCOT Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
(c)	ERCOT may extend the existing RMR or MRA Agreement as necessary to allow completion of the Transmission Facilities upgrade(s), but in no event shall the extension last more than 90 days from the termination or expiration date of the existing RMR or MRA Agreement. 
(d)	Forty-five days prior to the end of the period for which the existing RMR or MRA Agreement has been extended, ERCOT shall assess whether the transmission upgrades are likely to be completed.  If ERCOT determines that the upgrades are not likely to be completed, ERCOT shall enter into negotiations with the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA to negotiate a new RMR or MRA Agreement to allow completion of the planned transmission upgrades.  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice on or before the date that extension negotiations begin with the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA.  The Market Notice must contain the name and seasonal MW ratings of the RMR Unit or MRA and the expected duration of the contract extension, including the expected termination date.  Additionally, the Market Notice must contain a description of the exit strategy and the status of progress of exit strategy projects.  ERCOT shall notify the ERCOT Board of the extension at the ERCOT Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
3.14.1.9	Generation Resource Status Updates
(1)	By April 1st and October 1st of each year and when material changes occur, every Resource Entity that owns or controls a Mothballed Generation Resource or an RMR Unit shall report to ERCOT, on a unit-specific basis, the estimated lead time required for each Resource to be capable of returning to service and, in percentage terms, report probable generation capacity from each Resource that the Resource Entity expects to return to service in each Season of each of the next ten years.
(2)	For modeling purposes, ERCOT and TSPs shall rely on the most recent submittal of the following two Notifications with respect to an RMR Unit, Mothballed Generation Resource or Decommissioned Generation Resource: Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations, or Section 22, Attachment H, Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation.  Except in the case of an NSO submitted for a Generation Resource temporarily suspending operation due to a Forced Outage, ERCOT shall post each submitted NSO and Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation to the ERCOT website and issue a Market Notice notifying Market Participants of the posting as soon as practicable, but no later than five Business Days after receipt.
(3)	A Mothballed Generation Resource that is not mothballed indefinitely shall remain modeled in all ERCOT systems at all times, (i.e., will not be flagged as “mothballed” in ERCOT’s models) and, when it is not available, the Resource Entity shall designate the Generation Resource as on Planned Outage in the Outage Scheduler.
(4)	Except for Mothballed Generation Resources that operate under a Seasonal Operation Period, a Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 30 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to return a Mothballed Generation Resource to service by completing a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation.  
(5)	A Resource Entity must submit a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation no later than 60 days prior to the conclusion of an RMR Agreement.
(6)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to begin its Seasonal Operation Period if the first date of operation is prior to the date designated by the Resource Entity in its NSO.  A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the end date designated by the Resource Entity in its NSO if the Resource Entity intends to suspend operation later than that date.  Notifications under this Section shall be provided by the Resource Entity by completing a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).
(7)	Once the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT that a Mothballed Generation Resource is operating under a Seasonal Operation Period, the Resource Entity does not need to annually notify ERCOT of such status.
(8)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource operating under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to return the Mothballed Generation Resource to year-round operation by completing a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).  
(9)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource that is not currently mothballed indefinitely must notify ERCOT in writing, by completing an NSO (Section 22, Attachment E), no less than 150 days before the date on which the Mothballed Generation Resource is to be suspended indefinitely or retired and decommissioned.
(10)	ERCOT may request that a Mothballed Generation Resource operating under a Seasonal Operation Period be available for operation earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th of any given calendar year.  If ERCOT identifies a specific Resource Entity or QSE with which it will discuss such a request in an attempt to reach a mutually agreeable resolution, ERCOT shall issue a Notice as soon as practicable.  The Notice shall include the Resource name and, as applicable, the Resource mnemonic, the Resource MW rating by Season, and the potential duration of the extended operation period, including anticipated start and end dates.  If agreement is reached for the Mothballed Generation Resource to be available for operation earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th, the Resource Entity shall complete, within two Business Days, a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).
(11)	If ERCOT and the Resource Entity or QSE cannot reach a mutual agreement to make the Mothballed Generation Resource operating under a Seasonal Operation Period available earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th of any given calendar year, then ERCOT may exercise its ability to bring the Mothballed Generation Resource operating under a Seasonal Operating Period into the market under an RMR Agreement pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, ERCOT Control Area Authority.
(12)	ERCOT may evaluate, on an annual basis, Mothballed Generation Resources operating under a Seasonal Operation Period for RMR Service to address ERCOT System reliability during the portion of the year when the Mothballed Generation Resource would be unavailable. 
(13)	A Resource Entity that submitted an NSO as a result of a Forced Outage must notify ERCOT of its intent to return to service as soon as practicable by updating its status in the Outage Scheduler and Current Operating Plan (COP) and is not required to submit a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation.
(14)	Before retiring and decommissioning either a Mothballed Generation Resource this is mothballed indefinitely or an RMR Unit that would otherwise become a Mothballed Generation Resource upon expiration of an RMR Agreement, a Resource Entity shall notify ERCOT of the expected retirement by submitting a completed Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).  The date of retirement indicated on the form shall comply with the requirements of Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.      
(15)	If a Generation Resource is designated as decommissioned and retired pursuant to any of the above provisions, ERCOT will permanently remove the Generation Resource from the ERCOT registration systems in accordance with Section 3.10.1.  Except as provided in paragraph (16) below, if a Resource Entity decides to bring a Decommissioned Generation Resource back to service at a later date, it will be considered a new Resource and must follow the Generator Interconnection or Modification (GIM) process detailed in the Planning Guide.  If the Generation Resource is designated as mothballed, ERCOT and TSPs will consider the Generation Resource mothballed until the Resource Entity indicates a definitive return to service date pursuant to this Section.
(16)	A Resource Entity may bring a Decommissioned Generation Resource back to service without following the GIM process if the operating characteristics of the Resource are materially identical to the characteristics of the Resource as it existed prior to the date of decommissioning and the Resource Entity submits a Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation (Section 22, Attachment H) within three years of the date the Generation Resource was removed from the ERCOT Network Operations Model.  The date of return proposed in the Notification must be a Network Operations Model load date that is no earlier than 45 days and no later than 180 days from the date of the Resource Entity’s Notification.  ERCOT may delay the Network Operations Model load date based on the timing of the Resource Entity’s submission of complete Resource registration data.  If the Resource Entity is not the Resource Entity that was associated with the Generation Resource at the time it was removed from the model, the Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT documentation that establishes the Resource Entity’s ownership of the Generation Resource.  
(a)	Notwithstanding the proposed date of return reflected in the Notification, as a condition for the synchronization of the Resource, ERCOT or the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) may require any studies, testing, metering, or facility upgrades that ERCOT or the TDSP deem necessary for the reliable interconnection of the Resource, and ERCOT may require the Resource Entity to resolve any operational concern associated with the Resource.  The TDSP may require the Resource Entity to compensate the TDSP for any required studies or upgrades in the same manner contemplated for new Generation Resources by the ERCOT Planning Guide, the TDSP’s tariff, and the Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA).  
(b)	If ERCOT or the TDSP requires any studies, testing, metering or facility upgrades, or if ERCOT determines that operational concerns must be addressed, the Resource Entity must complete the commissioning process within 90 days of the date of synchronization, subject to any extension authorized by ERCOT for good cause.  
(c)	Any Generation Resource that returns to service pursuant to this paragraph is entitled to any exemption from ERCOT requirements that the Resource was entitled to at the time it was removed from the model if the exemption still exists under ERCOT rules.
[NPRR1246:  Replace Section 3.14.1.9 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
3.14.1.9	Generation Resource/Energy Storage Resource Status Updates
(1)	By April 1st and October 1st of each year and when material changes occur, every Resource Entity that owns or controls a Mothballed Generation Resource, a Mothballed Energy Storage Resource (ESR), or an RMR Unit shall report to ERCOT, on a unit-specific basis, the estimated lead time required for each Resource to be capable of returning to service and, in percentage terms, report probable generation capacity from each Resource that the Resource Entity expects to return to service in each Season of each of the next ten years.
(2)	For modeling purposes, ERCOT and TSPs shall rely on the most recent submittal of the following two Notifications with respect to an RMR Unit, Mothballed Generation Resource, Mothballed ESR, or Decommissioned Generation Resource: Section 22, Attachment E, Notification of Suspension of Operations, or Section 22, Attachment H, Notification of Change of Resource Designation.  Except in the case of an NSO submitted for a Resource temporarily suspending operation due to a Forced Outage, ERCOT shall post each submitted NSO and Notification of Change of Resource Designation to the ERCOT website and issue a Market Notice notifying Market Participants of the posting as soon as practicable, but no later than five Business Days after receipt.
(3)	A Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR that is not mothballed indefinitely shall remain modeled in all ERCOT systems at all times, (i.e., will not be flagged as “mothballed” in ERCOT’s models) and, when it is not available, the Resource Entity shall designate the Resource as on Planned Outage in the Outage Scheduler.
(4)	Except for Mothballed Generation Resources and Mothballed ESRs that operate under a Seasonal Operation Period, a Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 30 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to return a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR to service by completing a Notification of Change of Resource Designation.  
(5)	A Resource Entity must submit a Notification of Change of Resource Designation no later than 60 days prior to the conclusion of an RMR Agreement.
(6)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to begin its Seasonal Operation Period if the first date of operation is prior to the date designated by the Resource Entity in its NSO.  A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the end date designated by the Resource Entity in its NSO if the Resource Entity intends to suspend operation later than that date.  Notifications under this Section shall be provided by the Resource Entity by completing a Notification of Change of Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).
(7)	Once the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT that a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR is operating under a Seasonal Operation Period, the Resource Entity does not need to annually notify ERCOT of such status.
(8)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR operating under a Seasonal Operation Period shall notify ERCOT in writing no less than 15 days prior to the date on which the Resource Entity intends to return the Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR to year-round operation by completing a Notification of Change of Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).  
(9)	A Resource Entity with a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR that is not currently mothballed indefinitely must notify ERCOT in writing, by completing an NSO (Section 22, Attachment E), no less than 150 days before the date on which the Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR is to be suspended indefinitely or retired and decommissioned.
(10)	ERCOT may request that a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR operating under a Seasonal Operation Period be available for operation earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th of any given calendar year.  If ERCOT identifies a specific Resource Entity or QSE with which it will discuss such a request in an attempt to reach a mutually agreeable resolution, ERCOT shall issue a Notice as soon as practicable.  The Notice shall include the Resource name and, as applicable, the Resource mnemonic, the Resource MW rating by Season, and the potential duration of the extended operation period, including anticipated start and end dates.  If agreement is reached for the Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR to be available for operation earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th, the Resource Entity shall complete, within two Business Days, a Notification of Change of Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).
(11)	If ERCOT and the Resource Entity or QSE cannot reach a mutual agreement to make the Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR operating under a Seasonal Operation Period available earlier than June 1st or later than September 30th of any given calendar year, then ERCOT may exercise its ability to bring the Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR operating under a Seasonal Operating Period into the market under an RMR Agreement pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, ERCOT Control Area Authority.
(12)	ERCOT may evaluate, on an annual basis, Mothballed Generation Resources and Mothballed ESRs operating under a Seasonal Operation Period for RMR Service to address ERCOT System reliability during the portion of the year when the Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR would be unavailable. 
(13)	A Resource Entity that submitted an NSO as a result of a Forced Outage must notify ERCOT of its intent to return to service as soon as practicable by updating its status in the Outage Scheduler and Current Operating Plan (COP) and is not required to submit a Notification of Change of Resource Designation.
(14)	Before retiring and decommissioning either a Mothballed Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR is mothballed indefinitely or an RMR Unit that would otherwise become a Mothballed Generation Resource upon expiration of an RMR Agreement, a Resource Entity shall notify ERCOT of the expected retirement by submitting a completed Notification of Change of Resource Designation form (Section 22, Attachment H).  The date of retirement indicated on the form shall comply with the requirements of Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.      
(15)	If a Generation Resource or Mothballed ESR is designated as decommissioned and retired pursuant to any of the above provisions, ERCOT will permanently remove the Resource from the ERCOT registration systems in accordance with Section 3.10.1.  Except as provided in paragraph (16) below, if a Resource Entity decides to bring a Decommissioned Generation Resource back to service at a later date, it will be considered a new Resource and must follow the Generator Interconnection or Modification (GIM) process detailed in the Planning Guide.  If the Resource is designated as mothballed, ERCOT and TSPs will consider the Resource mothballed until the Resource Entity indicates a definitive return to service date pursuant to this Section.
(16)	A Resource Entity may bring a Decommissioned Resource back to service without following the GIM process if the operating characteristics of the Resource are materially identical to the characteristics of the Resource as it existed prior to the date of decommissioning and the Resource Entity submits a Notification of Change of Resource Designation (Section 22, Attachment H) within three years of the date the Generation Resource was removed from the ERCOT Network Operations Model.  The date of return proposed in the Notification must be a Network Operations Model load date that is no earlier than 45 days and no later than 180 days from the date of the Resource Entity’s Notification.  ERCOT may delay the Network Operations Model load date based on the timing of the Resource Entity’s submission of complete Resource registration data.  If the Resource Entity is not the Resource Entity that was associated with the Generation Resource at the time it was removed from the model, the Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT documentation that establishes the Resource Entity’s ownership of the Generation Resource.  
(a)	Notwithstanding the proposed date of return reflected in the Notification, as a condition for the synchronization of the Resource, ERCOT or the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) may require any studies, testing, metering, or facility upgrades that ERCOT or the TDSP deem necessary for the reliable interconnection of the Resource, and ERCOT may require the Resource Entity to resolve any operational concern associated with the Resource.  The TDSP may require the Resource Entity to compensate the TDSP for any required studies or upgrades in the same manner contemplated for new Generation Resources by the ERCOT Planning Guide, the TDSP’s tariff, and the Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA).  
(b)	If ERCOT or the TDSP requires any studies, testing, metering or facility upgrades, or if ERCOT determines that operational concerns must be addressed, the Resource Entity must complete the commissioning process within 90 days of the date of synchronization, subject to any extension authorized by ERCOT for good cause.  
(c)	Any Resource that returns to service pursuant to this paragraph is entitled to any exemption from ERCOT requirements that the Resource was entitled to at the time it was removed from the model if the exemption still exists under ERCOT rules.
3.14.1.10	Eligible Costs
(1)	“Eligible Costs” are costs that would be incurred by the RMR Unit owner to provide the RMR Service, excluding fuel costs or other costs the RMR Unit would have incurred anyway had it been mothballed or shut down.  
(a)	Examples of Eligible Costs include the following to the extent they each meet the standard for eligibility:
(i)	Direct labor to operate the RMR Unit during the term of the RMR Agreement;
(ii)	Materials and supplies directly consumed or used in operation of the RMR Unit during the term of the RMR Agreement;
(iii)	Services necessary to operate the RMR Unit during the term of the RMR Agreement;
(iv)	Costs associated with emissions credits used as a direct result of operation of the RMR Unit under direction from ERCOT, or emissions reduction equipment as may be required according to terms of the RMR Agreement;
(v)	Costs associated with maintenance:
(A)	Due to required equipment maintenance;  
(B)	Due to replacement to alleviate unsafe operating conditions; 
(C)	Due to regulatory requirements, with compliance dates during the term of the RMR Agreement (any such compliance dates and requirements shall be explicitly defined in the RMR Agreement); or 
(D)	To ensure the ability to operate the RMR Unit consistent with Good Utility Practice;
(vi)	Reservation and transportation costs associated with firm fuel supplies not recovered under Section 6.6.6.2, RMR Payment for Energy;
(vii)	Property taxes and other taxes attributable to continuing to operate the RMR Unit during the term of the RMR Agreement;
(viii)	General fund transfers or similar direct expenses incurred by a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) if it is required to pay a portion of its revenues to the municipality.  If the RMR payment to the MOU is subject to such a requirement, this expense is an incremental cost directly associated with the RMR Unit;
(ix)	Costs based on a long-term service agreement (LTSA), provided that:
(A)	The maintenance costs to be included are incremental and consistent with the definitions of the costs within the scope of the RMR Agreement and these Protocols;
(B)	The cost of each component is specifically set by the LTSA;
(C)	ERCOT must be able to verify the incremental or variable maintenance costs ($/MWh) or ($/start) described in the LTSA; and
(D)	The LTSA is in effect during the term of the RMR Agreement and available to ERCOT for review; and
(x)	Non-fuel costs to return a mothballed RMR Unit, or an RMR Unit that had ceased operations permanently due to a Forced Outage, to service provided that: 
(A)	The costs were incurred between the effective date of the RMR Agreement and the termination date of the RMR Agreement; and 
(B)	The costs do not include costs the RMR Unit owner would have incurred had the RMR Unit remained mothballed or under Forced Outage.
(b)	Examples of costs not included as Eligible Costs are:
(i)	Depreciation expense, return on equity, and debt and interest costs;
(ii)	Property taxes and other taxes not attributable to continuing to operate the RMR Unit;
(iii)	Income taxes of the RMR Unit owner or operator; 
(iv)	Labor and material costs associated with other, non-RMR Generation Resources at the same facility;
(v)	Cost of parts inventory not used by the RMR Unit during the term of the Agreement;
(vi)	Costs attributed to other Resources in the power generation station; and
(vii)	Any other costs the Resource Entity that owns the RMR Unit would have incurred even if the RMR Unit had been mothballed or shutdown.
3.14.1.11	Budgeting Eligible Costs
(1)	The owner of an RMR Unit shall provide a good faith preliminary budget, including detailed monthly estimates of its Eligible Costs to ERCOT, to support its calculation of the initial Standby Cost in Part III of the Notification of Suspension of Operations submitted to ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process, in a format acceptable to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall review the budget and may reject any item it determines to be unreasonable.  The owner of the RMR Unit and ERCOT may mutually agree to modify the expected contract capacity and Target Availability of the RMR Unit as necessary to account for any budget item that is rejected.
(2)	As part of the MRA evaluation process, the QSE that represents the MRA must notify ERCOT if any contributed capital expenditures are required under the proposed MRA Agreement.  The QSE that represents the MRA shall provide an explanation and a good faith preliminary budget for the contributed capital expenditures in a format acceptable to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall review and may approve the budget to determine which costs would be considered contributed capital expenditures in accordance with Section 3.14.1.19, Charge for Contributed Capital Expenditures.
(3)	ERCOT may retain a third party mutually agreeable to ERCOT and the owner of the RMR Unit to assist in the evaluation of a submitted budget, whether for initial or updated costs.  The cost of such a third party will be allocated pursuant to paragraph (2) of Section 6.6.6.6, Method for Reconciling RMR Actual Eligible Costs, RMR and MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures, and Miscellaneous RMR Incurred Expenses. 
(4)	The Eligible Cost budgeting process is as follows:
(a)	The RMR Unit owner shall supply ERCOT a preliminary Eligible Cost budget for the expected RMR Agreement period starting with the anticipated effective date of the RMR Agreement.  
(b)	The preliminary Eligible Cost budget should be submitted in conjunction with Part III of the NSO, as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, and paragraph (6) of Section 3.14.1.2.  
(c)	The budget will include Eligible Costs categorized in terms of:
(i)	Base Cost of Operations, by month, which includes Eligible Costs that are independent of the levels of operation, Outages and non-Outage maintenance; 
(ii)	Outage Maintenance Cost, which includes Eligible Costs attributable to Planned or Maintenance Outages and/or inspections occurring during the term of the RMR Agreement, by month.  Maintenance alternatives available during any Planned or Maintenance Outage must be presented to ERCOT for determination of the alternative to be performed and paid for under the RMR Agreement.  The RMR Unit owner must present ERCOT with a budget for each option, benefits of each alternative, unit availability impact associated with not performing each alternative, and a recommendation to facilitate ERCOT’s selection process.  If no reasonable alternatives are available then the RMR Unit owner shall provide an affirmation to that effect; 
(iii)	Non-Outage Maintenance Cost, by month, which includes non-recurring Eligible Costs that are independent of a particular scheduled Outage.  Non-Outage maintenance alternatives available during any scheduled Outage must be presented to ERCOT for determination of the alternative to be performed and paid for under the RMR Agreement.  The RMR Unit owner must present ERCOT with a budget for each option, benefits of each alternative, unit availability impact associated with not performing each alternative, and a recommendation to facilitate ERCOT’s selection process.  If no reasonable alternatives are available then an affirmation by the RMR Unit owner to that effect must be included in the RMR Agreement; 
(iv)	For Resources without approved verifiable costs, the following data is required:
(A)	Variable Operations & Maintenance (O&M) costs ($/start), from start to Low Sustained Limit (LSL), for each start type:
(1)	Cold; 
(2)	Hot; and
(3)	Intermediate;
(B)	Operating variable O&M costs ($/MWh):
(1)	At LSL; and
(2)	Above LSL;
(C)	Average generation from breaker close to LSL (MWh), for each start type:
(1)	Cold; 
(2)	Hot; and
(3)	Intermediate;
(D)	Fuel consumption (MMBtu/start), for each start type:
(1)	Cold; 
(2)	Hot; and
(3)	Intermediate;
(E)	Startup Fuel Percentage from start to LSL, for each start type:
Fuel Type	Hot (%)	Intermediate (%)	Cold (%)
Gas			
Fuel Oil			
Solid Fuel			
(F) 	Operating Fuel Percentage:
Fuel Type	At LSL	Above LSL
Gas		
Fuel Oil		
Solid Fuel		
(G)	Input/output curve coefficients; 
(v)	Other budget items means Eligible Costs not clearly identifiable in the previous three categories including:
(A)	Environmental emission credit consumption (or purchase as explicitly defined under the RMR Agreement, to operate the unit) includes the opportunity cost for using emission credits through the combustion of fuel feedstock by the RMR Unit.  Costs must be based on verifiable market data as supplied by the RMR Unit owner; and 
(B)	“Compliance Costs,” which includes foreseeable costs to comply with regulations, Federal or state that have a compliance deadline that occurs during the term of the RMR Agreement.
(d)	Thirty days after receipt of the preliminary Eligible Costs budget, ERCOT shall notify the RMR Unit owner of its selections under the alternatives provided in the preliminary budget.  The RMR Unit owner and ERCOT shall set the Target Availability monthly values consistent with the options presented to and selected by during the budgeting process.  The Target Availability shall be mutually agreed by ERCOT and the RMR Unit owner by taking into account a negotiated amount of predicted Forced Outages, Planned Outages identified during the budgeting process, and any budget items rejected by ERCOT.
(e)	If applicable, the RMR Unit owner should provide a written description of the type of work needed for the Resource to achieve the operational conditions for the RMR Service, in accordance with the capacity and Target Availability requirements.  This should include:
(i)	A description of the equipment needed;
(ii)	An indication if the equipment is anticipated to be expensed or capitalized;
(iii)	The estimated life and depreciation schedule of each capitalized component;
(iv)	The estimated salvage value of the capitalized components;  
(v)	The estimated time to install each piece of equipment; and
(vi)	The expected time of completion of work needed to restore the Resource to operational status.
3.14.1.12	Calculation of the Initial Standby Cost 
(1)	The initial Standby Cost shall be calculated by dividing the total monthly approved budget cost over the term of the RMR Agreement by the total hours for the term of the RMR Agreement.
3.14.1.13	Updated Budgets During the Term of an RMR Agreement
(1)	Upon commencement of the RMR Agreement, based on the Agreement term, the RMR Unit owner shall identify planned equipment installations as anticipated to be expensed or capitalized and shall update the estimated salvage value of capitalized components.  The RMR Unit owner shall submit to ERCOT updated budget information every three months, in a format consistent with the preliminary budget, for the remainder of the term of the RMR Agreement.  ERCOT shall review updated budget information for reasonableness and may reject any item it determines to be unreasonable.  The owner of the RMR Unit and ERCOT may mutually agree to modify the contract capacity and Target Availability of the RMR Unit to account for any such budget item rejection.  
(2)	ERCOT will use approved updated budget information to update the total RMR costs expected to be incurred over the remaining term of the RMR Agreement.  If the total costs over the remaining term of the RMR Agreement change by more than 10% with respect to those costs anticipated for the same period in the most recently approved budget, the RMR Standby Cost will be recalculated.  The revised Standby Cost will be recalculated by dividing the remaining budgeted costs over the number of remaining hours for which the RMR Unit is under an RMR Agreement.
(3)	ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice describing the revised Standby Cost at least ten calendar days prior to the effective date of a change to the Standby Cost.  The effective date of a revised Standby Cost will always be on the first day of a calendar month.
3.14.1.14	Reporting Actual RMR Eligible Costs 
(1) 	The RMR Unit owner shall provide ERCOT with documentation supporting actual Eligible Costs on a monthly basis in a form and a level of detail acceptable to ERCOT for ERCOT to verify that all Eligible Costs are actual and appropriate.  Submitted actual Eligible Costs must be categorized consistently with budgeted Eligible Costs.  Actual cost data must be submitted on time by the Resource Entity for the RMR Unit and then verified by ERCOT so the actual cost data can be reflected in the Final or True-Up Settlement Statement. 
(2) 	To be considered timely for the final, actual cost data for month ‘x’ must be submitted by the 16th of the month following month ‘x’.  To be considered timely for the true-up, actual cost data for month ‘x’ must be submitted 60 days prior to the publishing date of the True-Up Settlement Statement for the first day in month ‘x’.  Any deviation in filing actual cost data in accordance with this calendar must be requested of ERCOT, by the QSE representing an RMR Unit.  Such request for deviation shall contain the reason for the inability to meet the calendar and an expected date that the cost data will be provided to ERCOT.  At its discretion ERCOT may choose to honor such a request.  No later than two Business Days following its decision, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice of any such request and its response thereto.  In the event, that actual cost data is not submitted  in accordance with the calendar or approved deviation for the true-up, then the cost for the portion of eligible cost that has not been submitted is deemed to be zero. 
3.14.1.15	Reporting Actual MRA Eligible Costs 
(1)	The QSE that represents the MRA that has received contributed capital expenditures shall provide ERCOT with evidence of the actual costs associated with the capital expenditures on a monthly basis in a level of detail sufficient for ERCOT to verify that all capital contributions costs are actual and appropriate.
3.14.1.16	Reconciliation of Actual Eligible Costs
(1)	ERCOT shall issue a miscellaneous Invoice to charge the QSE representing the RMR Unit for any identified over-payments for actual Eligible Costs.  Funds collected will be distributed in accordance with Section 6.6.6.6, Method for Reconciling RMR Actual Eligible Costs, RMR and MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures, and Miscellaneous RMR Incurred Expenses.
3.14.1.17	Incentive Factor
(1)	Subject to the reductions described in paragraphs (2) and (3) below, the Incentive Factor for RMR Agreements is equal to 10% of the actual Eligible Costs, excluding fuel costs and reservation and transportation costs associated with firm fuel supplies as described in paragraph (1)(a)(vi) of Section 3.14.1.10, Eligible Costs.  The Incentive Factor for RMR Agreements is not applied to capital expenditures as described in Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, or to capital expenditures reclassified as an expense in accordance with paragraph (3)(d) of Section 3.14.1.19, Charge for Contributed Capital Expenditures.  The Incentive Factor shall never be less than zero.
(2)	The Incentive Factor shall be reduced if the RMR Unit fails to perform to the contracted capacity during a Capacity Test as described in the RMR Agreement.  The reduction will be linear, with a 2% reduction in the Incentive Factor for every 1% of reduced Capacity.
(3)	The Incentive Factor shall be reduced if the “Hourly Rolling Equivalent Availability Factor” of the RMR Unit is less than the Target Availability (i.e. the “Actual Availability”, as defined below, is less than the Target Availability).  
(a)	The reduction will be linear; with a 2% reduction in the Incentive Factor payment for every 1% of the Hourly Rolling Equivalent Availability Factor less than the Target Availability stated in the RMR Agreement.  The RMR Unit’s Actual Availability shall be calculated on an hourly rolling six-month average basis. 
(b)	The calculation is made by dividing the total MW of available capacity per hour according to its final COP by the total MW of contracted capacity per hour for the previous 4380 hours.
(c)	For purposes of this calculation, any hour within the previous 4380-hour period that precedes the start date of the RMR Agreement is treated as if 100% of the capacity of the unit was available for the hour.
3.14.1.18	Major Equipment Modifications
(1)	During the term of an RMR Agreement, in the event that major equipment modifications are required in order for the RMR Unit to provide RMR Service (such as installation of environmental control equipment), ERCOT and the RMR Unit owner shall negotiate in good faith concerning changes to the terms of the RMR Agreement.
3.14.1.19	Charge for Contributed Capital Expenditures
(1)	This Section applies to any RMR or MRA Agreement entered into by ERCOT and a Resource Entity or QSE on or after October 12, 2016.  
(2) 	For purposes of this Section, contributed capital expenditures are defined as expenditures that were made to ensure the availability of an RMR Unit or MRA in connection with an RMR or MRA Agreement, that were settled in accordance with the Settlement processes in the ERCOT Protocols, and that would ordinarily be capitalized under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or International Accounting Standards (IAS) assuming ongoing operation of the RMR Unit or MRA.  Consistent with the process described in Section 3.14.1.11, Budgeting Eligible Costs, ERCOT will identify contributed capital expenditure items included in each category of submitted Eligible Costs as defined in Section 3.14.1.10, Eligible Costs, or submitted with any MRA budgets.  
(3)	A QSE that has received payments from ERCOT for contributed capital expenditures pursuant to an RMR or MRA Agreement entered into on or after October 12, 2016 must refund to ERCOT the contributed capital expenditures as follows:
(a)	At the end of the RMR Agreement, if the Resource Entity chooses not to have the Generation Resource participate in energy or Ancillary Service markets, the QSE representing the Resource Entity shall repay, in a lump sum payment, the positive salvage value associated with the contributed capital expenditures, as estimated at the time of the RMR Agreement.
(b) 	At the end of the MRA Agreement, if the QSE that represents the MRA chooses not to have the MRA participate in energy or Ancillary Service markets, the QSE representing the MRA shall repay, in a lump sum payment, the positive salvage value associated with the contributed capital expenditures, as estimated at the time of the MRA Agreement.  In addition, the QSE that represents the MRA must repay, in a lump sum payment, the value of contributed capital expenditures in excess of the actual cost of the capitalized equipment.
(c)	If an RMR Unit or MRA participates in the energy or Ancillary Service markets at any time after the termination date of the RMR or MRA Agreement, the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA shall repay, in a lump sum payment, 100% of the remaining book value of the capitalized equipment and capitalized installation charges based on straight-line depreciation over the estimated life of the capitalized component(s) as of the termination date of the RMR or MRA Agreement in accordance with GAAP or IAS standards for electric utility equipment, plus 10% of the value of any accelerated tax depreciation associated with the capital contribution taken by the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA during the term of the RMR or MRA Agreement, less any remaining positive salvage value associated with the contributed capital expenditures that was previously repaid in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) above.  The estimated life shall be based on documentation provided by the manufacturer; or, if installing used equipment, the estimated life may be based on an approximation agreed to by the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA and ERCOT, but in no event shall the estimated life be less than the equipment life used for federal income tax purposes.  The value of the accelerated tax depreciation for each year shall be the difference between the straight line figure and the appropriate Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS) depreciation schedule for the equipment, multiplied by the statutory tax rate.  The calculation of the accelerated depreciation as described herein must be supported by an attestation executed by an officer or executive with the authority to bind the Resource Entity or the QSE representing the Resource Entity.    
(d)	If additional contributed capital expenditures are identified subsequent to execution and during the term of the RMR or MRA Agreement, the applicable repayment amounts as determined in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) above will be modified accordingly.
(e)	The amount of contributed capital expenditures may be adjusted by ERCOT when early termination in accordance with the RMR Agreement results in a reclassification of capital expenditures to expenses in accordance with GAAP or IAS.
(f)	If the Resource Entity that owns or controls the RMR Unit or the QSE that represents the MRA is required to pay a lump sum payment of contributed capital expenditures per paragraph (a), (b), or (c) above, then ERCOT will issue a Market Notice identifying the amount of the lump sum payment within five Business Days of termination of the RMR or MRA Agreement.  
(i)	ERCOT shall issue a miscellaneous Invoice charging the QSE for the applicable amounts under paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) above.  ERCOT will issue a Market Notice after completion of the collection and disbursement of the repaid contributed capital expenditures.
(ii)	ERCOT shall distribute the repayment to QSEs representing Load per Section 6.6.6.6, Method for Reconciling RMR Actual Eligible Costs, RMR and MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures, and Miscellaneous RMR Incurred Expenses.
3.14.1.20	Budgeting Fuel Costs
(1)	The RMR Unit owner shall supply ERCOT a preliminary monthly fuel cost budget for the anticipated term and effective date of the RMR Agreement.  The fuel cost budget must include information pertaining to the cost of the fuel feedstock, including where appropriate transportation costs and terms, as well as fuel storage costs and terms, and any other fuel contract provisions (e.g. “take or pay” provisions) that may impact the cost of all fuels anticipated to be used by the RMR Unit over the life of the RMR Agreement and must include fuel costs categorized in terms of: 
(a)	Primary fuel; and 
(b)	Secondary fuel.
(2)	The estimated fuel payments may include a fuel adder to better approximate expected fuel costs, which may be adjusted from time to time by mutual agreement of the RMR Unit owner and ERCOT.  The fuel adder shall represent the difference between the forecasted average fuel price and the forecasted average of the relevant index price over the RMR contract period.  The fuel adder must also include the forecasted cost of transporting and delivering fuel and fuel imbalance fees to the Resource.  The RMR Unit owner must provide to ERCOT supporting documentation indicating how the fuel adder was determined.
(3)	The RMR Unit owner shall provide good faith estimates of the RMR Unit input/output curve coefficients to ERCOT with its Notification of Suspension of Operations.  
(4)	Based on production figures provided to the RMR Unit owner by ERCOT, the RMR Unit owner shall also provide ERCOT fuel supply options available for the RMR Unit.  For each option, the RMR Unit owner shall detail the associated impacts on the fuel and non-fuel budgets and on the availability of the RMR Unit.  If no reasonable alternatives are available then an affirmation by the RMR Unit owner to that effect must be included in the RMR Agreement.  If there are available fuel options, then no less than 30 days after the receipt of the fuel supply options, ERCOT shall notify the RMR Unit owner of its fuel supply option selection.
3.14.1.21	Reporting Actual Eligible Fuel Costs
(1)	The RMR Unit owner shall provide ERCOT with actual fuel costs on a monthly basis for the RMR Unit in a level of detail sufficient for ERCOT to verify that all fuel costs are actual and appropriate.  ERCOT shall perform a true-up of the estimated fuel costs using the submitted and verified actual fuel costs for the RMR Unit.  Actual cost data must be submitted on time by the Resource Entity for the RMR Unit and then verified by ERCOT so the actual cost data can be reflected in the True-Up Settlement Statement.  To be considered timely for the final, actual cost data for month ‘x’ must be submitted by the 16th of the month following month ‘x.’  To be considered timely for the true-up, actual cost data for month ‘x’ must be submitted 60 days prior to the publishing date of the True-Up Settlement Statement for the first day in month ‘x.’  Any deviation in filing actual cost data in accordance with this calendar must be requested of ERCOT, by the QSE representing an RMR Unit.  Such request for deviation shall contain the reason for the inability to meet the calendar and an expected date that the cost data will be provided to ERCOT.  At its discretion ERCOT may choose to honor such a request.  No later than two Business Days following its decision, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice of any such request and its response thereto.  In the event that actual cost data is not submitted in accordance with the timeline or is not an approved deviation for the true-up, then the cost for the portion of Eligible Cost that has not been submitted is deemed to be zero.
(2)	Actual fuel costs must be appropriate actual costs attributable to ERCOT’s scheduling and/or deployment of the RMR Unit.  Actual fuel costs may include cost of fuel (including the cost of exceeding swing gas contract limits, additional gas demand costs set by fuel supply, or transportation contracts); demand fees, imbalance penalties, transportation charges, and cash out premiums. In addition, actual fuel costs may include costs incurred to:
(a)	Keep the boiler(s) warmed, if approved in advance by ERCOT; and 
(b)	Test the RMR Unit prior to or during the term of the RMR Agreement, if approved in advance by ERCOT.
3.14.2	Black Start
(1)	Each Generation Resource providing BSS must meet the requirements specified in North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards and the Operating Guides.
(2)	Each Generation Resource providing BSS must meet the technical requirements specified in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards, and Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(3)	Bids for BSS are due on or before February 15th of each three-year period.  Bids must be evaluated based on evaluation criteria attached as an appendix to the request for bids and contracted by December 31st for the following three-year period.  ERCOT shall ensure BSSs are arranged, provided, and deployed as necessary to reenergize the ERCOT System following a Blackout or Partial Blackout.
(a)	Resources shall disclose any weather-related limitations that could affect the Resource’s ability to provide BSS using the form provided in Section 22, Attachment M, Generation Resource Disclosure Regarding Bids for Black Start Service, as part of a bid to provide BSS. 
(b)	BSS bids shall include the hourly stand-by price and the BSS Back-up Fuel costs where applicable.
(c)	When a Resource is selected to provide BSS, the Black Start Resource shall be required to complete all applicable testing requirements as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.5, System Black Start Capability Qualification and Testing.
(d)	ERCOT shall provide a list of all prospective Black Start Resources that responded to the RFP for BSS to the impacted TSPs no later than seven days after the date on which bids for BSS are due.  Any feedback from affected TSPs shall be limited to the identification of transmission constraints that may adversely impact the ability of the Black Start Resource to energize the “Next Start Resource” and shall be due to ERCOT by March 1st of that year.  ERCOT shall share the feedback with the QSE representing the prospective Black Start Resource as soon as practicable.  The QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall have the option to provide a response to any feedback provided by an affected TSP.
(4)	ERCOT may schedule unannounced Black Start testing, to verify that BSS is operable as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.5.
(5)	QSEs representing Generation Resources contracting for BSSs shall participate in training and restoration drills coordinated by ERCOT.
(6)	ERCOT shall periodically determine and review the location and number of Black Start Resources required, as well as any special transmission or voice communication needs required.  ERCOT and providers of this service shall meet the requirements as specified in the Operating Guides and in NERC Reliability Standards.
(7)	A Resource Entity representing a Black Start Resource may request that an alternate Generation Resource which is connected to the same black start primary and secondary cranking path as the original Black Start Resource be substituted in place of the original Black Start Resource during the three-year term of an executed Standard Form Black Start Agreement (Section 22, Attachment D, Standard Form Black Start Agreement) if the alternate Generation Resource meets testing and verification under established qualification criteria to ensure BSS.
(a)	ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may reject a Resource Entity’s request for an alternate Generation Resource and will provide the Resource Entity an explanation of such rejection.  
(b)	If ERCOT accepts the alternative Generation Resource as the substituted Black Start Resource, such acceptance shall not affect the original terms, conditions and obligations of the Resource Entity under the Standard Form Black Start Agreement.  The Resource Entity shall submit to ERCOT an Amendment to Standard Form Black Start Agreement (Section 22, Attachment I, Amendment to Standard Form Black Start Agreement) after qualification criteria has been met.
(8)	For the purpose of the Black Start Hourly Standby Fee as described in Section 6.6.8.1, Black Start Hourly Standby Fee Payment, the BSS Availability Reduction Factor shall be determined by using the availability for the original Black Start Resource and any substituted Black Start Resource(s), as appropriate for the rolling 4380-hour period of the evaluation.
(9)	Each Generation Resource selected to provide BSS shall be prepared and able to provide BSS at any time as may be required by ERCOT, subject only to the limitations described in ERCOT Protocols or the Black Start Agreement.  
(10)	Each Generation Resource selected to provide BSS shall be able to utilize BSS Back-up Fuel for BSS and shall maintain a contracted amount of BSS Back-up Fuel to run the Black Start Resource for a minimum of 72 hours at its maximum output.  The Generation Resource shall maintain the contracted amount of BSS Back-up Fuel at all times during the duration of the BSS contract term unless performing a BSS Back-up Fuel Switching Test or the Generation Resource is operating pursuant to a Black Start deployment event.  This requirement does not apply to Resources that do not rely on purchased fuel.  
(11)	A Black Start Resource may utilize the contracted amount of BSS Back-up Fuel outside of BSS if ERCOT determines it is necessary during an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) event.
(12)	A Black Start Resource is not obligated to contract its full on site fuel storage capability for BSS Back-up Fuel.  On site backup fuel in excess of the contracted BSS Back-up Fuel amount may be used by the Generation Resource at the discretion of the Generation Resource and ERCOT shall not prevent the Black Start Resource from utilizing the excess fuel, nor shall the Black Start Resource be required to request permission from ERCOT to utilize fuel in excess of the contracted BSS Back-up Fuel amount.  
(13)	ERCOT may, at its discretion, waive the BSS Back-up Fuel requirement stated in this Section, in whole or in part, if ERCOT deems necessary in order to procure a sufficient number or preferred combination of Generation Resources to provide BSS.
(14)	A Resource Entity that submits a bid or is contracted to provide BSS or serve as an alternate to provide BSS with a Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR): 
(a)	Shall not nominate the SWGR to satisfy supply adequacy or capacity planning requirements in any Control Area other than the ERCOT Region during the term of the BSS contract; 
(b)	Shall submit a report to ERCOT in compliance with paragraph (2) of Section 16.5.4, Maintaining and Updating Resource Entity Information, indicating that the SWGR does not have any contractual requirement in a non-ERCOT Control Area during the term of the BSS contract; and 
(c)	Shall take any further action requested by ERCOT to ensure that ERCOT will be classified as the “Primary Party” for the SWGR under any agreement between ERCOT and another Control Area Operator (CAO) during the term of the BSS contract.    
(15)	If a Resource Entity with a SWGR is contracted to provide BSS or designated as an alternate to provide BSS, the Resource Entity shall have its Black Start plan procedures approved by ERCOT.  In the event of a Partial Blackout or Blackout of the ERCOT System, the Resource Entity with a SWGR shall immediately: 
(a)	Effectuate its Black Start plan procedures to be available to provide BSS; and  
(b)	Provide BSS as directed by ERCOT or the local Transmission Operator (TO).
(16)	Each Resource Entity shall identify in its Resources Registration data if its Resource is a Black Start Capable Resource and an Isochronous Control Capable Resource.
(17)	Each Resource Entity and each TSP shall identify in the Network Operations Model if a modeled breaker or switch it operates or directs the operation of has a Synchroscope and a Synchronism Check Relay associated with the breaker or switch.
3.14.3	Emergency Response Service
(1)	ERCOT shall procure and deploy ERS with the goal of promoting reliability prior to and during energy emergencies.
3.14.3.1	Emergency Response Service Procurement
(1)	ERCOT shall issue Requests for Proposals to procure ERS for each Standard Contract Term.  The ERS Standard Contract Terms are as follows:
(a)	December through March;
(b)	April and May;
(c)	June through September; and
(d)	October and November.
(2)	ERCOT shall procure ERS from one or more of the four following ERS service types:
(a)	Weather-Sensitive ERS-10
(b)	Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-10
(c)	Weather-Sensitive ERS-30
(d)	Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-30
(3)	ERS offers shall be submitted only by QSEs capable of receiving Extensible Markup Language (XML) messaging on behalf of represented ERS Resources.   
(4)	Each site in an ERS Generator must have an interconnection agreement with its TDSP prior to submitting an ERS offer and must have exported energy to the ERCOT System prior to the offer due date.  An ERS Resource that cannot inject energy to the ERCOT System can only be offered as an ERS Load.
(5)	In order to qualify as weather-sensitive, an ERS Load must meet one of the following criteria:
(a)	The ERS Load must consist exclusively of residential sites; or 
(b)	The ERS Load must consist exclusively of non-residential sites and must qualify as weather-sensitive based on the accuracy of the regression baseline evaluation methodology as described in Section 8.1.3.1.1, Baselines for Emergency Response Service Loads, as an indicator of actual interval Load.
(i)	ERCOT shall establish minimum accuracy standards for qualification as an ERS Load under the regression baseline evaluation methodology.  
(ii)	An ERS Load must have at least nine months of interval meter data to qualify as weather-sensitive under the regression baseline evaluation methodology.
(iii)	ERCOT’s determination that an ERS Load qualifies as a weather-sensitive ERS Load is independent of ERCOT’s determination of which baseline methodologies may be appropriate for purposes of evaluating the ERS Load’s performance.
(c)	If a site with Distributed Renewable Generation (DRG) has been designated by the QSE to be evaluated by using its native load, the default baseline analysis shall be performed using the calculated native load.
(6)	QSEs representing ERS Resources may submit offers for one or more ERS Time Periods within an ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERS Time Periods shall be defined by ERCOT in the RFP for that ERS Standard Contract Term.  An ERS offer is specific to an ERS Time Period.  In submitting an offer, both the QSE and the ERS Resource are committing to provide ERS for that ERS Time Period if selected.
(7)	A QSE may submit separate offers for an ERS Resource to provide any or all of the four ERS service types during the same or different ERS Time Periods in the same ERS Standard Contract Term, but ERCOT shall only award offers for one service type for each ERS Resource.
(8)	The minimum capacity offer for an ERS Load on the weather-sensitive baseline is one half (0.5) MW; all other ERS capacity offers will have a minimum amount that may be offered of one-tenth (0.1) MW.  ERS Resources may be aggregated to reach this requirement.
(9)	Offers from ERS Generators must include self-serve capacity and injection capacity amounts greater than or equal to zero for each ERS Time Period offered.
(10)	ERCOT may establish an upper limit, in MWs, on the amount of ERS capacity it will procure for any ERS Time Period in any ERS Standard Contract Term.	
(11)	A QSE’s offer to provide ERS shall include: 
(a)	The name of the QSE representing the ERS Resource and the name of an individual authorized by the QSE to represent the QSE and its ERS Resource(s);
(b)	The name of an Entity that controls the ERS Resource, and an affirmation that the QSE has obtained written authorization from the Entity to submit ERS offers on its behalf and to represent the Entity in all matters before ERCOT concerning the Entity’s provision of ERS;
(c)	Any information or data specified by ERCOT, including access to historical meter data, and affirmation by the QSE that it has obtained written authorization from the controlling Entity of the ERS Resource for the QSE to obtain such data;
(d)	Affirmation that the controlling Entity of the ERS Resource has reviewed P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.507, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Emergency Response Service (ERS), these Protocols and Other Binding Documents relating to the provision of ERS, and has agreed to comply with and be bound by such provisions;
(e)	An agreement by the QSE to produce any written authorization or agreement between the QSE and any ERS Resource it represents, as described in this Section, upon request from ERCOT or the PUCT;
(f)	Affirmation that no offered capacity from any site in an ERS Resource has been or will be committed to provide any other product, service, or program during any of the hours in the ERS Time Period in the Standard Contract Term for which the offer is submitted.  Such prohibited products, services, or programs include, but are not limited to, Ancillary Services, Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED), or TDSP standard offer programs.  As an exception to the foregoing, a QSE may offer a site to provide ERS for an ERS Time Period in the Standard Contract Term even if the QSE has an offer pending for that same site to serve as an MRA during that ERS Time Period and Standard Contract Term; however, if the site is selected to serve as an MRA it will not be permitted to serve as ERS during any ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Term in which it is obligated to serve as an MRA;
(g)	Affirmation that the QSE and the controlling Entity the ERS Resource are familiar with any applicable federal, state or local environmental regulations that apply to the use of any generator in the provision of ERS, and that the use of such generator(s) to provide of ERS would not violate those regulations.  This provision applies to both ERS Generators and to the use of backup generation by ERS Loads; and
(h)	Affirmation that each offered ERS Resource satisfies at least one of the conditions set forth in paragraph (9) of Section 3.6.1, Load Resource Participation, and that all of the ERS Resource’s offered Demand response capacity will be available if deployed by ERCOT during an emergency.
(12)	Upon request from a QSE, ERCOT shall provide the dates and times for any deployment events or tests of any ERS site during the previous three ERS Standard Contract Terms, provided that the QSE has obtained written authorization from the ERS site to obtain the information from ERCOT.  Such QSE requests shall include the following site-specific information: Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID), unique meter identifier (if applicable), or, if the site is in a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) area, site name and site address.
(13)	Sites associated with a Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) may not participate in ERS.  Offers for Resources containing sites associated with a DSR will be rejected by ERCOT.  If ERCOT determines that any participating site is associated with a DSR, that site will be treated as removed from the Resource on the date the determination was made.  An ERS Resource’s obligation will not change as a result of any such site removal.
[NPRR1000:  Delete item (13) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(14)	Each offer submitted by a QSE on behalf of an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline shall include the QSE’s projection of the maximum number of sites in the aggregation during the ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT shall review this projection and the information provided regarding the initial size of each aggregated ERS Load and shall reject any offer on behalf of such an ERS Load if the maximum size of the ERS Load projected by the QSE would violate the limits of site participation growth described in paragraph (15) below.
(15)	A QSE may modify the population of an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline once per month during an ERS Standard Contract Term via a process defined by ERCOT.  Such adjustments shall be effective on the first day of each month following the first month.  A fully validated ERS Offer form must be received by ERCOT no later than seven Business Days prior to the first day of the month for which is intended to be in effect.
(a)	During an ERS Standard Contract Term, a QSE may increase the number of sites in an aggregated ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline by no more than the greater of the following:
(i)	100% of the initial number of sites; or
(ii)	Two MW times the QSE’s projection of the maximum number of sites in the aggregation during the ERS Standard Contract Term, divided by the maximum MW capacity offered for any ERS Time Period for the aggregation.
(b)	Any sites added to an ERS Load on a weather-sensitive baseline are subject to the same requirements for historical meter data as the other sites in the aggregation, as described in paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.3.1.1.
(16)	For each of the four ERS service types, an ERS Standard Contract Term may consist of a single ERS Contract Period or multiple non-overlapping ERS Contract Periods, as follows:  
(a)	If no ERS Resources’ obligations are exhausted for an ERS service type during an ERS Contract Period pursuant to Section 3.14.3.3, Emergency Response Service Provision and Technical Requirements, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the last Operating Day of the ERS Standard Contract Term.  
(b)	If one or more ERS Resources’ obligations in a given ERS service type are exhausted pursuant to Section 3.14.3.3, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day during which the exhaustion occurred.  However, if ERS Resources participating in a service type remain deployed at the end of that Operating Day, the ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day on which those ERS Resources are recalled.
(c)	If an ERS Contract Period terminates as provided in paragraph (b) above, and one or more ERS Resources’ obligations were not exhausted, a new ERS Contract Period for the ERS service type shall begin at hour ending 0100 on the following Operating Day.  This new ERS Contract Period shall terminate as provided in this Section.  
(d)	If ERCOT elects pursuant to paragraph (b) above to renew the obligations of any ERS Resources whose obligations were entirely exhausted, a new ERS Contract Period for the ERS service type shall begin at hour ending 0100 on the Operating Day after ERCOT has notified QSEs that it has elected to renew the obligation.  If a new ERS Contract Period was initiated pursuant to paragraph (c) above on an Operating Day prior to ERCOT issuing a notice of renewal under this paragraph, that ERS Contract Period shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day on which ERCOT notified QSEs that the renewal will take place.  This new ERS Contract Period shall terminate as provided in this Section.
(17)	An ERS Resource currently obligated to provide an ERS service type during an ERS Time Period and ERS Contract Period may be offered to provide service as an MRA during that same ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Period.  If the ERS Resource is selected to provide service as an MRA during an ERS Time Period in the ERS Contract Period in which it is currently obligated to provide an ERS service type, the ERS Contract Period will be terminated for that ERS service type.  The ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall terminate at the end of the Operating Day that is five days before the first Operating Day the ERS Resource is obligated to provide service under the MRA Agreement.  However, if any ERS Resources participating in that ERS service type are currently deployed at the end of the Operating Day the ERS Contract Period is scheduled to terminate, then the ERS Resource’s ERS Contract Period for that ERS service type shall continue until the end of the Operating Day on which all of the ERS Resources participating in that ERS service type have been recalled, at which time the ERS Contract Period will terminate.
(18)	ERS Resources shall be obligated in ERS Contract Periods as follows:  
(a)	Unless an ERS Contract Period is terminated pursuant to paragraph (17) above, for the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, all ERS Resources awarded by ERCOT shall be obligated.
(b)	ERS Resources shall be obligated for 24 hours of cumulative deployment time for any ERS Contract Period during the December through March ERS Standard Contract Term.  The obligated cumulative deployment time for any ERS Contract Period during all other ERS Standard Contract Terms shall be 12 hours.
(c)	For each of any subsequent ERS Contract Periods for a given ERS service type in an ERS Standard Contract Term, any ERS Resource with remaining obligation due to cumulative deployment time of less than the maximum deployment hours specified for the ERS Standard Contract Term in paragraph (b) above at the end of the last ERS Contract Period shall be obligated for only this remaining deployment time in the new ERS Contract Period.  
(d)	For each of any subsequent ERS Contract Periods in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT may renew the obligations of certain ERS Resources as follows: 
(i)	During the offer submission process, QSEs shall designate on the ERS offer form, which is posted on the ERCOT website, whether an ERS Resource elects to participate in renewal ERS Contract Periods (“renewal opt-in”).  Except as provided in paragraph (iv) below, this election is irrevocable once the ERS Resource has been committed for an ERS Standard Contract Term.
(ii)	If the obligations of one or more ERS Resources are exhausted before the end of an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall determine whether to include renewal opt-ins in the subsequent ERS Contract Period.  ERCOT may limit any renewal to one or more ERS Time Periods and/or a specified MW quantity in which obligations have been exhausted.  
(iii)	If ERCOT decides to include renewal opt-ins in a subsequent ERS Contract Period, ERCOT shall promptly notify all ERS QSEs as to the ERS Time Periods and/or any specified MW quantity that it has elected to renew.
(iv)	By the end of the second Business Day in any renewal ERS Contract Period, a QSE may revoke the renewal opt-in status of any of its committed ERS Resources for any subsequent ERS Contract Periods within that ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT shall develop a method for QSEs to communicate such information.
(v)	By the end of the third Business Day in any ERS Contract Period other than the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall communicate to QSEs a confirmation of the terms of participation for all of their committed ERS Resources.
(19)	In any 12-month period beginning on December 1st and ending on November 30th, ERCOT shall not commit dollars toward ERS in excess of the ERS cost cap, except for the purpose of renewing ERS Resource obligations during a period where ERS has been exhausted.  ERCOT may determine cost limits for each ERS Standard Contract Term in order to ensure that the ERS cost cap is not exceeded.
(20)	If a QSE offers a Weather-Sensitive ERS Load, selects a control group baseline for that ERS Load, and ERCOT determines that the magnitude of the offer relative to the baseline error will prevent accurate determination of the performance, ERCOT shall reject the offer.
(21)	ERCOT shall reduce the available expenditure under the ERS cost cap by the value of the amount of ERS Self-Provision.  ERCOT shall value ERS Self-Provision at the clearing price multiplied by the total MW of ERS Self-Provision during each relevant ERS Time Period.
(22)	ERCOT shall procure ERS Resources for each ERS Time Period using a clearing price.  The Emergency Response Service Procurement Methodology, posted on the ERCOT website, is an Other Binding Document that describes the methodology used by ERCOT to procure ERS.  ERCOT may consider geographic location and its effect on congestion in making ERS awards.  ERCOT may prorate the capacity awarded to an ERS Resource in an ERS Time Period if the capacity offered for that ERS Resource would cost more than the Emergency Response Service Procurement Methodology allows under the time period expenditure limit.  Such proration shall only be done if the QSE indicates on its offer for an ERS Resource that the QSE is willing to have the capacity prorated and also has indicated the lowest prorated capacity limit which is acceptable for that ERS Resource.  If proration would result in an award below an ERS Resource’s designated prorated capacity limit or below the minimum MW offer applicable to the ERS service type as specified in paragraph (8) above, the offer will not be awarded.  
(23)	Payments and Self-Provision credits to QSEs representing ERS Resources are subject to adjustments as described in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities.  Deployment of ERS Resources will not result in additional payments other than any payment for which the QSE may be eligible through Real-Time energy imbalance or other ERCOT Settlement process. 
(24)	QSEs representing ERS Resources selected to provide ERS shall execute a Standard Form Emergency Response Service Agreement, as provided in Section 22, Attachment G, Standard Form Emergency Response Service Agreement.
3.14.3.2	Emergency Response Service Self-Provision
(1)	QSEs may self-provide ERS.  A QSE electing to self-provide all or part of its ERS obligation shall provide ERCOT with the following, while adhering to a schedule published by ERCOT:
(a)	The maximum MW of capacity the QSE is willing to self-provide for each ERS Time Period for each of the four ERS service types; and
(b)	A proxy Load Ratio Share (LRS) specific to each ERS Time Period for which an offer is submitted.  Proxy LRS shall be a number between zero and one and determined by the self-providing QSE to represent its estimate of its final LRS to be used in ERS Settlement.
(2)	ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit is defined as the maximum level of self-provided ERS MW capacity for which a QSE may receive credit at Settlement for each ERS service type.  During the procurement process, a QSE may elect to use a proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit (based on the proxy LRS it submitted) to reduce its ERS Self-Provision MW for each ERS service type.  After receiving ERS Self-Provision information, ERCOT will award offers for additional MWs of ERS capacity for each ERS service type such that the sum of the following does not exceed the total amount of ERS capacity ERCOT intends to procure for that ERS service type in any one ERS Time Period:  
(a)	ERS capacity awarded through ERS competitive offers; and 
(b)	ERS capacity awarded through ERS Self-Provision offers, where for each self-providing QSE the self-provided capacity offer is the lesser of the amount offered or the QSE’s proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit.
 (3)	The calculations used to determine a QSE’s proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for each ERS service type for the ERS procurement phase are the same as those used to determine the actual ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for Settlement, as described in Section 6.6.11.1, Emergency Response Service Capacity Payments, except that:
(a)	Offered ERS capacity is substituted for delivered ERS capacity; and
(b)	A QSE’s proxy LRS is substituted for its actual LRS.
(4)	ERCOT shall compute and provide QSEs offering ERS Self-Provision their proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit for each ERS service type.  A QSE may then reduce any or all of its self-provision offers such that its revised total ERS Self-Provision capacity is greater than or equal to its proxy ERS Self-Provision Capacity Upper Limit provided by ERCOT.  
(5)	A QSE with reduced ERS Self-Provision capacity shall notify ERCOT of the ERS Resources whose obligations are reduced and the quantity of the revised obligations.  The QSE must provide this information to ERCOT within two Business Days of receiving Notice of the reduced obligation.
(6)	If a QSE reduces its ERS commitment according to these procedures, it will not be obligated to pay ERS charges so long as the ERS Self-Provision capacity it delivers is equal to or greater than its final LRS of the total ERS capacity delivered through offers and ERS Self-Provision, as described in paragraph (2) of Section 6.6.11.2, Emergency Response Service Capacity Charge. 
(7)	A QSE opting for ERS Self-Provision may also offer separate capacity into ERS in the form of a priced offer in the same manner as any other QSE.
(8)	The capacity obligation of a self-provided ERS Resource that is designated for renewal opt-in, as described in paragraph (18) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement, will be fixed at the original awarded MW level for any subsequent ERS Contract Periods in the ERS Standard Contract Term.
3.14.3.3	Emergency Response Service Provision and Technical Requirements
(1)	If ERCOT deploys ERS, any ERS Resource that is contractually committed to provide the ERS service type deployed during the ERS Time Period that includes all or any part of the first interval of the Sustained Response Period must deploy.  If an ERS Resource does not have an obligation for any part of the first interval of the Sustained Response Period, the ERS Resource is not required to deploy at any time during the Sustained Response Period.
(2)	For purposes of this paragraph, deployment obligation time is the cumulative time during the Sustained Response Period of an event during which an ERS Resource has an obligation.  Deployment obligation time does not include the ramp time.  An ERS Resource shall be subject to the maximum cumulative deployment obligation time for an ERS Contract Period as specified in paragraph (18)(b) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement, except that for ERS Resources that did not exhaust their obligations in a previous ERS Contract Period within the same ERS Standard Contract Term, the maximum deployment obligation time shall be the remaining deployment obligation time from the previous ERS Contract Period as provided by paragraph (18)(c) of Section 3.14.3.1.  Weather-Sensitive ERS test deployments do not contribute to the calculation of cumulative deployment obligation time.
(3)	Unless ERCOT has received a notice of unavailability in a format prescribed by ERCOT, ERCOT shall assume that a contracted ERS Resource is fully available to provide ERS.
(4)	QSEs and ERS Resources they represent shall meet the following technical requirements: 
(a)	Each ERS Resource, including each member of an aggregated ERS Resource, must have an ESI ID or Resource ID (RID) and dedicated metering, as defined by ERCOT.  An ERS Resource located outside of a competitive service area may use a unique service identifier in lieu of an ESI ID or RID.  ERCOT shall analyze 15-minute interval meter data, adjusted for the deemed actual Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs), for each ERS Resource for purposes of offer analysis, availability and performance measurement.  ERS Resources behind a NOIE meter point shall arrange, preferably with the NOIE TDSP, to provide ERCOT with 15-minute interval meter data subject to ERCOT’s specifications and approval.  ERS Resources behind a Private Use Network’s Settlement Meter point shall provide ERCOT 15-minute interval meter data subject to ERCOT’s specifications and approval.  All generators in an ERS Resource must have TDSP metering capable of measuring energy exported to the ERCOT System and TDSP metering capable of measuring energy imported from the ERCOT System.  The QSE must also ensure that interval metering is installed that measures the output of each site in the ERS Generator and that conforms with the requirements described in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.142, Submetering for Apartments, Condominiums, and Mobile Home Parks.  Time stamps shall conform to the requirements in Section 10.9.2, TSP or DSP Metered Entities.  The ERS Resource associated with unique meters in competitive choice areas will be adjusted by the same DLFs as the ESI ID associated with that ERS Resource.  The ERS Resource associated with unique meters in NOIE areas will be adjusted based on a NOIE DSP DLF study submitted to ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (6) of Section 13.3, Distribution Losses.   
(b)	An ERS Resource participating in ERS-10 must be capable of meeting its event performance obligations relevant to its assigned performance evaluation methodology within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction to its QSE, and must be able to maintain such performance for the entire Sustained Response Period.  An ERS Resource participating in ERS-30 must be capable of meeting its event performance obligations relevant to its assigned performance evaluation methodology within 30 minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction to its QSE, and must be able to maintain such performance for the entire Sustained Response Period.
(c)	A QSE must be capable of communicating with its ERS Resources in sufficient time to ensure deployment as described in paragraph (b) above.
(d)	QSEs shall communicate to ERCOT, in a method prescribed by ERCOT, material changes in the availability status of their ERS Resources.
(e)	An ERS Resource deployed for ERS must be able to return to a condition such that it is capable of meeting its ERS performance requirements within ten hours following a release Dispatch Instruction.
(f)	ERS Resources and their QSEs are subject to qualification based on ERCOT’s evaluation of their historical meter data and, if applicable, their historic performance in providing other comparable ERCOT services.  ERS Resources and their QSEs are subject to testing requirements as described in Section 8.1.3.2, Testing of Emergency Response Service Resources.  
(g)	ERS Resources are not subject to the modeling, telemetry and COP requirements of other Resources.
(5)	The contracted capacity of ERS Resources may not be used to provide Ancillary Services during a contracted ERS Time Period.  Nothing herein shall be construed to limit passive (voluntary) Load response, provided the ERS Resource meets its performance and availability requirements, as described in Section 8.1.3.1, Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources.
(6)	QSEs representing ERS Resources must meet the requirements specified in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities.
3.14.3.4	Emergency Response Service Reporting and Market Communications
(1)	ERCOT shall review the effectiveness and benefits of ERS every 12 months from the start of the program year and report its findings to TAC no later than April 15 of each calendar year.
(2)	Prior to the start of the first ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, and no later than the end of the third Business Day following the start of any subsequent ERS Contract Period in an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the number of MW procured per ERS Time Period, the number and type of ERS Resources selected, and the projected total cost of ERS for that ERS Contract Period.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the following documents to the MIS Certified Area for each of the four ERS service types:
(a)	ERS Award Notification;
(b)	ERS Resources Submission Form – Approved; 
(c)	ERS Resource Event Performance Summary;
(d)	ERS Resource Availability Summary;
(e)	ERS Test Portfolio;
(f)	ERS Resource Test Results;
(g)	ERS Pre-populated Resource Identification Forms;
(h)	ERS Resource Group Assignments;
(i)	ERS Resource Submission Form – Error Reports;
(j)	ERS Preliminary Baseline Review Results;
(k)	ERS QSE Portfolio Availability Summary;
(l)	ERS QSE Portfolio Event Performance Summary;
(m)	ERS Meter Data Error Report;
(n)	ERS QSE-level Payment Details Report; and
(o)	ERS Obligation Report for TDSPs.
(4)	At least 24 hours before an ERS Standard Contract Term begins, or within 72 hours after the beginning of a new ERS Contract Period within an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall post the information below to the MIS Certified Area for each affected TDSP:
(a)	A list of ERS Resources and members of aggregated ERS Resources located in the TDSP’s service area that will be participating in ERS during the upcoming ERS Standard Contract Term; 
(b)	The name of the QSE representing each ERS Resource;
(c)	The ERS service type provided by each ERS Resource for each ERS Time Period;
(d)	All applicable ESI IDs or unique meter identifier associated with each ERS Resource; 
(e)	Estimate of the ERS MW obligation by station code for TDSPs in competitive areas;
(f)	Estimate of the ERS MW obligation by zip code for TDSPs in NOIE areas; and 
(g)	The date(s) of the interconnection agreement(s) for each generator in any ERS Generator.
(5)	TDSPs shall maintain the confidentiality of the information provided pursuant to paragraph (4) above.
(6)	ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the following information for each ERS offer 60 days after the first day of the ERS Standard Contract Term:
(a)	The name of the QSE submitting the offer; 
(b)	For each ERS Time Period, the price and quantity offered, or if the offer is for self-provided ERS, the quantity offered and an indication that the MW will be self-provided; and
(c)	The ERS service type.
[NPRR885, NPRR995, NPRR1007, and NPRR1246:  Insert applicable portions of Sections 3.14.4 and 3.14.4.1 below upon system implementation for NPRR885 or NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:]
3.14.4	Must-Run Alternative Service
3.14.4.1	Overview and Description of MRAs
(1)	Subject to approval by the ERCOT Board, ERCOT may procure Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Service as an alternative to contracting with an RMR Unit if ERCOT determines that the MRA Agreement(s) will, in whole or in part, address the reliability need identified in the RMR study in a more cost-effective manner.
(2)	ERCOT will issue a request for proposal (RFP) to solicit offers from QSEs to provide MRA Service.  
(a) 	A QSE may submit an offer in response to the RFP or enter into an MRA Agreement only if it meets all registration and qualification criteria in Section 16.2, Registration and Qualification of Qualified Scheduling Entities.  
(b)	QSEs whose offers for MRA Service are accepted will be paid according to their offers, subject to the terms of the RFP, MRA Agreement and ERCOT Protocols.  A clearing price mechanism shall not be used for awarding offers for MRA Service.
(c)	A QSE may submit more than one offer for MRA Service in response to a single RFP.  A QSE may not submit the same MRA or MRA Sites in more than one of its offers.  ERCOT may award multiple offers to a QSE, so long as the MRA or MRA Sites in an awarded offer are not included in any other awarded offer.  A QSE may condition ERCOT’s acceptance of an offer for a Demand Response MRA on ERCOT’s acceptance of an offer for a co-located Other Generation MRA offer. 
(d)	Demand Response MRAs and Other Generation MRAs, including MRA Sites within aggregated MRAs, that are situated in NOIE service territories, are eligible to provide MRA Service.  Any QSE other than the NOIE QSE wishing to represent such MRAs must obtain written authorization allowing the representation from the NOIE in which the MRA is located.  This authorization must be signed by an individual with authority to bind the NOIE and must be submitted to ERCOT prior to the submission of an offer in response to the MRA.
(3)	An MRA may be connected at either transmission or distribution voltage.
(4)	An MRA offer is ineligible to the extent it offers capacity that was included as a Resource in ERCOT’s RMR analysis or in the Load forecasts from the Steady State Working Group (SSWG) base cases used as the basis for the RMR analysis, as provided for in paragraph (3)(a) of Section 3.14.1.2, ERCOT Evaluation Process.  
(5)	Each MRA must provide at least five MW of capacity.  
(6)	Eligible MRA resources may include:
(a)	A proposed Generation Resource or ESR that was not included in the reliability need evaluation pursuant to paragraph (3)(a) of Section 3.14.1.2.  
(i) 	Proposed Generation Resources or ESRs must adhere to all interconnection requirements, including the requirements of Planning Guide Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification.  
(ii)	If the proposed Generation Resource is an Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR), the QSE shall provide capacity values based on the Resource’s projected peak average capacity contribution during the MRA Contracted Hours.
(b)	Proposed capacity additions to existing Generation Resources or ESRs, if the additional capacity was not included in the reliability need evaluation pursuant to paragraph (3)(a) of Section 3.14.1.2. 
(i)	Prior to providing MRA Service, the Resource Entity will be required to modify its Resource Registration information and complete necessary interconnection requirements with respect to this additional capacity.  
(ii)	If the capacity is being added to an IRR, the QSE shall provide capacity values based on the Resource’s projected peak average capacity contribution during the hours identified during the MRA Contracted Hours.
(c)	A proposed or existing generator registered, or proposed to be registered, with ERCOT as a Settlement Only Generator (SOG) or as Distributed Generation (DG).  If the generator is an intermittent renewable generator, the QSE, when responding to an RFP for MRA Service, shall provide capacity values based on the MRA’s projected peak average capacity contribution during the hours identified in the MRA Contracted Hours.
(d)	Proposed or existing Demand response assets, which may include Load Resources and ERS Loads. 
(e)	A proposed or existing Energy Storage System (ESS) registered, or proposed to be registered, with ERCOT as a Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS).
(7)	An MRA must be able to provide power injection or Demand response to the ERCOT System at ERCOT’s discretion during the MRA Contracted Hours.
(a)	QSE offers in response to an RFP for MRA Service must fully describe all of the MRA’s temporal constraints. 
(b)	For a Demand Response MRA, QSE offers in response to an RFP for MRA Service must include a statement as to whether the offered capacity is a Weather–Sensitive MRA.
(8)	The QSE representing an MRA must be capable of receiving both VDI and XML instructions.
(9)	ERCOT will periodically validate an MRA’s telemetry using 15-minute interval meter data.
(10)	An MRA for which the MRA or every MRA Site, is metered with either an Advanced Meter or an ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter must be available for qualification testing no later than 10 days prior to the first day of the contracted MRA Service.  Other MRAs must be available for qualification testing no later than 45 days prior to the first day of the contracted MRA Service.
(11) 	All MRA Sites within an MRA must be of the same type (i.e., all Generation Resource MRA, ESR MRA, Other Generation MRA, or Demand Response MRA).
(12)	A QSE representing an MRA shall submit to ERCOT and continuously update an Availability Plan for each MRA Contracted Hour for the current Operating Day and the next six Operating Days.
(13)	A QSE representing an MRA or MRA Site may not submit DAM Offers, provide an Ancillary Service or carry an ERS responsibility on behalf of any MRA or MRA Site during the MRA Contracted Hours.  Demand Response MRAs may not participate in TDSP standard offer programs during any MRA Contracted Hours.
(14)	A Combined Cycle Train serving as an MRA must be configured as a single Combined Cycle Generation Resource.   
(15)	QSEs representing MRAs shall submit offers using an MRA offer sheet as provided by ERCOT. 
(16)	QSEs must submit the following information for each MRA offer:
(a)	The capacity, months and hours offered;
(b)	For an aggregated MRA, the offered capacity allocated to each MRA Site for all months and hours offered;
(c)	The Resource ID, ESI ID and or unique meter ID associated with the MRA, or in the case of an aggregated MRA, a list of the Resource IDs, ESI IDs and/or unique meter IDs of the offered MRA Sites;
(d)	The MRA Standby Price, represented in dollars per MW per hour;
(e)	Required capital expenditure, if any, if the MRA offer is awarded; 
(f)	The MRA Event Deployment Price, in dollars per deployment event, or proxy fuel consumption rate;
(g)	The ramp period or startup time of the MRA or aggregated MRA;
(h)	The MRA Variable Price, in dollars per MW per hour, and/or proxy heat rate;
(i)	The target availability of the MRA or aggregated MRA; and
(j)	Any additional information required by ERCOT within the RFP.
(17)	Demand Response MRAs shall not be deployed more than once per Operating Day.
(18)	Except for a Forced Outage, any Outage of an MRA must be approved by ERCOT. 
(19)	For any MRA that is registered with ERCOT as a Resource, the QSE representing the MRA must be the same as the QSE representing the Resource.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.2 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.2	Preliminary Review of Prospective Demand Response MRAs
(1)	In order to assist QSEs prior to their submission of MRA offers, ERCOT may provide QSEs, upon request, with an analysis of their prospective Demand Response MRA’s consumption patterns.  
(2)	ERCOT will provide a QSE with the analysis described under this Section only when the QSE makes its request in conformance with submission requirements and deadline set forth in the relevant MRA RFP.
(3)	In response to a proper and timely request by a QSE, ERCOT will provide the following information for each prospective Demand Response MRA: 
(a)	Substation identification for each MRA or MRA Site;
(b)	Demand Response MRA baseline options, if the resource qualifies for a default baseline; and
(c)	Historical reference Load levels; and
(d)	Any known errors or exceptions, such as whether the MRA or any MRA Sites are currently suspended from participation in another service (e.g., ERS), whether any listed MRA or MRA Sites have erroneous ESI IDs, or whether any prospective MRA or MRA Site lacks sufficient historical meter data.
(4) 	A submission by a QSE of a prospective Demand Response MRA does not bind the QSE to submit an offer for MRA Service.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.3 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.3	MRA Substitution
(1)	Subject to approval by ERCOT, a QSE may provide a substitution for a contracted MRA.  Any substituted MRA is subject to the same obligations as the originally awarded MRA.  
(2)	ERCOT, at its discretion, may disallow an MRA substitution if it determines that the substitution may cause operational or reliability concerns, does not provide expected reliability benefits equivalent to those under the MRA Agreement, or is inconsistent with Protocols.  
(3)	Any substitution must cover all MRA Contracted Hours in an Operating Day and may cover one or more Operating Days.
(4)	For purposes of payment, for any calendar day during which one or more MRA substitutions was made, the performance of an MRA shall be determined based on the combined performance of the original and substitution MRAs.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.4 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.4	Commitment and Dispatch
(1)	ERCOT may commit and/or Dispatch an MRA during the term of the MRA Agreement for the purpose of utilizing the MRA’s contracted capacity at any time during the contracted hours in the MRA Agreement.  
(2)	ERCOT may commit an MRA, via VDI, prior to the contracted hours in the MRA Agreement based on the MRA’s ramp period or startup time, in order to ensure that the MRA Service is provided during the contracted hours.
(3)	In an MRA deployment event or unannounced test, the start time of the Demand response Ramp Period and/or generator startup time will be determined by ERCOT upon review of the time-stamped recording of the VDI.  The start time begins when the ERCOT operator confirms the QSE’s repeat-back of the instruction.

[NPRR885 and NPRR1246:  Insert applicable portions of Section 3.14.4.5 below upon system implementation for NPRR885; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
3.14.4.5	Standards for Generation Resource MRAs and ESR MRAs 
(1)	A Generation Resource MRA and ESR MRA shall at all times communicate accurate Resource Status to ERCOT via telemetry as described in Section 6.4.6, Resource Status.  
(2)	A Generation Resource MRA and ESR MRA shall be committed by ERCOT VDI and Dispatched by SCED.

[NPRR885:  Insert Sections 3.14.4.6 and 3.14.4.6.1 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6	Standards for Other Generation MRAs and Demand Response MRAs
3.14.4.6.1	MRA Telemetry Requirements
(1)	A QSE representing an Other Generation MRA shall at all times communicate an accurate status to ERCOT via telemetry at the MRA level and shall provide at least the following values: 
(a)	Status (e.g., ON, OUT, etc…);
(b)	High Sustained Limit (HSL);
(c)	LSL;
(d)	Current output level in MW;
(e)	Gross Reactive Power in MVAr; and
(f)	Net Reactive Power in MVAr.
(2)	A Demand Response MRA’s QSE shall at all times communicate accurate MRA status to ERCOT via telemetry and shall provide at least the following values: 
(a)	Net Power Consumption (NPC); and
(b)	Low Power Consumption (LPC) 
(3)	Event performance for Other Generation MRAs that are not Dispatched by SCED shall be evaluated by ERCOT as described in Section 3.14.4.6.5, MRA Event Performance Measurement and Verification.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.2 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.2	Baseline Performance Evaluation Methodology for Demand Response MRAs
(1)	A Demand Response MRA must qualify for one or more options described in the document entitled “Default Baseline Methodology” posted on the ERCOT website.  The baseline will be used to verify the Demand Response MRA’s performance as compared to its contracted capacity during an MRA deployment event.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.3 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.3	MRA Metering and Metering Data 
(1)	Each Demand Response MRA, or each MRA Site within an aggregated Demand Response MRA, must have an ESI ID and dedicated 15-minute Interval Data Recorder (IDR) metering.  A Demand Response MRA, or an MRA Site within an aggregated Demand Response MRA, that is located outside of a competitive service area may use a unique meter ID in lieu of an ESI ID. 
(2)	Each Other Generation MRA, or each MRA Site within an aggregated Other Generation MRA, must have an ESI ID and, if applicable, a Resource ID and dedicated 15-minute IDR metering.  An Other Generation MRA, or an MRA Site within an aggregated Other Generation MRA, that is located outside of a competitive service area may use unique meter IDs in lieu of the ESI ID and Resource ID.
(3)	For ESI IDs and Resource IDs situated in either NOIE or competitive choice areas of the ERCOT Region, meter data is stored in the ERCOT systems and will be accessed by ERCOT and used for all performance evaluations.
(4)	A QSE representing an MRA or MRA Site in a NOIE service territory is responsible for arranging with the NOIE TDSP to provide ERCOT with interval meter data for the MRA or MRA Site in a format prescribed by ERCOT on a monthly basis within 35 days following the end of a calendar month.
(5)	ERCOT shall use 15-minute interval meter data, adjusted for the deemed actual DLFs, for each Demand Response MRA and each Other Generation MRA for purposes of availability and event performance measurement.  
(a)	The interval meter data for an MRA or MRA Site located in a competitive choice area will be adjusted by the DLFs used for Settlement for that MRA or MRA Site.
(b)	The interval meter data for an MRA or MRA Site associated with a Unique Meter ID in a NOIE area will be adjusted based on a NOIE DSP DLF study submitted to ERCOT pursuant to Section 13.3, Distribution Losses.  If no such study has been submitted, the interval meter data will not be adjusted for distribution losses.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.4 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.4	MRA Availability Measurement and Verification
(1)	Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA availability will be evaluated on a monthly basis.
(2)	Within 45 days after the end of each month that a Demand Response MRA or an Other Generation MRA is obligated to be available under the terms of an MRA Agreement, ERCOT shall provide each QSE representing that MRA with a report of the MRAs availability for that month. 
(3)	For a Demand Response MRA or an Other Generation MRA, ERCOT will treat the MRA as unavailable for any committed intervals for which the meter data is not in ERCOT systems, regardless of the reason.
(4)	For a Demand Response MRA, ERCOT will consider the Demand Response MRA to have been available for any 15-minute interval in which the Demand Response MRA was contracted and for which the most current Availability Plan for the Demand Response MRA indicates that the Demand Response MRA is available and for which the effective actual MW Load was greater than 95% of the Demand Response MRA’s effective contracted capacity; otherwise, the Demand Response MRA will be considered unavailable for that 15-minute interval.  For purposes of payment under Section 6.6.6.7, MRA Standby Payment, the Demand Response MRA’s Monthly Availability Factor will be the ratio of the number of 15-minute intervals the Demand Response MRA was available during the MRA Contracted Month divided by the total number of contracted 15-minute intervals in the MRA Contracted Month.  For purposes of this paragraph, the following shall apply:
(a) 	The effective actual MW Load in an interval for an aggregated Demand Response MRA shall be the aggregated sum across all MRA Sites of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor, and the MRA Site metered MW;
(b)	The effective actual MW Load in an interval for a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation shall be the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor, and the metered MW value;
(c) 	The effective contracted capacity in an interval for an aggregated Demand Response MRA shall be the aggregated sum across all MRA Sites of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor, and the MRA Site’s portion of the contract capacity; and
(d)	The effective contracted capacity in an interval for a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation shall be the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor, and the contract capacity.
(5)	For an Other Generation MRA, ERCOT will consider the Other Generation MRA to have been available for any 15-minute interval in which the Other Generation MRA was contracted and for which the most current Availability Plan for the Other Generation MRA indicates that the Other Generation MRA is available and for which the Other Generation MRA’s export to the ERCOT System was equal to zero; otherwise, the Other Generation MRA will be considered unavailable for that 15-minute interval.  For purposes of payment under Section 6.6.6.7, the Other Generation MRA’s Monthly Availability Factor will be the ratio of the number of 15-minute intervals the Other Generation MRA was available during the MRA Contracted Month divided by the total number of contracted 15-minute intervals in the MRA Contracted Month. 
(6)	The following intervals will be excluded in ERCOT’s calculations of an MRA’s Monthly Availability Factor, for purposes of payment under Section 6.6.6.7:
(a)	Any 15-minute interval in which an MRA was deployed during an MRA deployment event or an unannounced ERCOT test;
(b)	Any 15-minute intervals on the day of an MRA deployment or an unannounced ERCOT test following the issuance of the ERCOT recall instruction applicable to that MRA; and
(c)	Any 15-minute interval in which an MRA or MRA Site was disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the generation, delivery or measurement of electricity to the MRA or MRA Site.  QSEs must obtain documentation from the TDSP regarding such events and must provide copies of such documentation to ERCOT for any interval to be excluded from the Monthly Availability Factor calculation.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.5 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.5	MRA Event Performance Measurement and Verification
(1)	This section applies to both Demand Response MRAs and Other Generation MRAs.  For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(a)	“Ramp Period” is the period of time, as set out in the MRA Agreement, by which the MRA agrees to begin delivering its contracted capacity following the ERCOT deployment VDI.   
(b)	“MRA Deployment Period” is the window of time beginning with the end of the MRA’s Ramp Period or the beginning of the MRA Contracted Hours, whichever is later, and ending with ERCOT’s VDI to recall the MRA.
(2)	No later than 45 days after an event in which one or more Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA were tested or deployed, ERCOT shall provide each QSE representing an MRA with a performance report containing the results of ERCOT’s evaluation of the event or test for each deployed or tested MRA.  The Event Performance Reduction Factor (MRAEPRF) for each MRA shall be the time-weighted average of the MRA’s Interval Performance Factors (MRAIPF) which are calculated as set out in paragraph (3) below.
(3)	ERCOT shall calculate the MRAIPF for intervals during an unannounced ERCOT test or an MRA deployment as follows:
MRAIPF q, r, i  = Max(Min(((Effective Base_MW i – Effective Actual_MW i) / (IntFrac i 
* Effective Contracted_Capacity_MW i)),1),0)
Where:
IntFrac i = (CEndT i – CBegT i) / 15
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
MRAEPRF q, r, m	None	Must-Run Alternative Event Performance Reduction Factor per QSE for the month—The Event Performance Reduction Factor of the MRA r represented by QSE q, for each hour of the month m.  The event performance reduction factor shall be determined as the time-weighted average of the Interval Performance Factor (MRAIPF).
MRAIPF q, r, i 	None	Must-Run Alternative Interval Performance Factor per QSE per Resource for the interval— The interval performance factor of the MRA r represented by QSE q, for the Settlement Interval i.  
IntFrac i	None	Interval fraction for that MRA for each Settlement Interval i in an MRA deployment period.
Effective Base_MWi	MW	For an aggregated Demand Response MRA, the aggregated sum of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor, and the MRA Site baseline MW values estimated by ERCOT for all MRA Sites in the MRA for that interval.  For a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation, the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor, and the MRA baseline MW value estimated by ERCOT for that interval.
For an aggregated Other Generation MRA, the aggregated sum of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor, and the MRA Site MW injected to the ERCOT System for the Settlement Interval i.  For an Other Generation MRA that is not an aggregation, the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor, and the MW injected to the grid by the MRA for that interval.
Effective Actual_MW i	MW	For an aggregated Demand Response MRA, the aggregated sum of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor and the metered MW values for all MRA Sites in the MRA for the Settlement Interval i.  For a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation, the product of -1, the MRA Shift Factor and the metered MW value for the Settlement Interval i.
For an Other Generation MRA, zero.
Effective Contracted_Capacity_MW i	MW	For an aggregated MRA, the sum of the product of -1, the MRA Site Shift Factor and the MRA Site portion of the contracted capacity of the MRA for the Settlement Interval i.
CBegT i	Minutes	If the MRA deployment period begins during that interval, the time in minutes and fractions of minutes from the beginning of that interval to the beginning of the MRA deployment period, otherwise it is zero.
CEndT i	Minutes	If the MRA deployment period ends during that interval, the time in minutes and fractions of minutes from the beginning of that interval to the end of the MRA deployment period, otherwise it is 15.
i	None	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
m	None	The index for a given month within the MRA Contracted Hours.
r	None	An MRA.
(4)	For each unannounced ERCOT test or MRA deployment of a Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA, ERCOT will calculate an MRA Event Performance Reduction Factor (MRAEPRF) as described in paragraph (2) above for the intervals covered by the test/event.  The Event Performance Reduction Factor calculation will begin with the first partial or full interval in the MRA deployment period and will end with the last full interval in the MRA deployment period.
(5)	A Demand Response MRA shall be deemed to have met its test/event performance requirements if it is determined by ERCOT to have met its Demand response obligations in the MRA deployment event as measured using the ERCOT-established baseline that ERCOT determines most accurately represents the Demand Response MRA’s Demand response contribution.
(6)	The MRA deployment period for a Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA will end at the time ERCOT issues a release instruction via VDI, or the end of the last MRA Contracted Hour on the day of the deployment, whichever is earlier.  
(7)	Event Performance Reduction Factors are expressed as a number between 0 and 1, rounded to three decimal places.  
(8)	A Demand Response MRA or an Other Generation MRA that achieves an Event Performance Reduction Factor of 0.950 or greater for a test/event and an Interval Performance Factor for the first full interval of the test/event of 0.950 or greater will be deemed to have successfully met its deployment obligations for that test/event.
(9)	If a Demand Response MRA or an Other Generation MRA fails to achieve an Event Performance Reduction Factor of 0.950 or greater, the Interval Performance Factors for that MRA for that event will be multiplied by an adjustment factor such that the Event Performance Reduction Factor for the test/event will be equal to the square of the original event performance factor.
(10)	If a Demand Response MRA has been classified by ERCOT as providing Weather-Sensitive MRA, and if ERCOT determines that the normalized peak Demand reduction value for the Demand Response MRA is greater than 95% of the largest contracted capacity value offered in any MRA Contracted Hour by the QSE for the Demand Response MRA, ERCOT shall not apply the adjustment factors as specified in paragraph (9) above.  To determine the normalized peak Demand reduction value, ERCOT shall:
(a) 	Calculate an average Demand reduction value across the intervals for each test and/or actual deployment event during the MRA contract period.  For this purpose the Demand reduction value for an interval shall be calculated as the greater of zero or effective base MW for the interval less the effective actual MW for the interval; and
(b)	Model the relationship of the average Demand reduction values determined in paragraph (a) above to actual weather and use the derived normalized peak Demand reduction value as the value that would be realized under normalized peak weather conditions.
(11)	For any contracted month in which ERCOT has deployed one or more Demand Response MRAs or Other Generation MRAs more than once for either an unannounced test or an MRA deployment, the Event Performance Reduction Factor (MRAEPRF) as described in paragraph (2) above for the MRA for the contracted month shall be the time-weighted average of the interval performance factor values for all tests/events in the Contracted Month.  The interval performance factors used for this calculation shall reflect any squaring applied pursuant to paragraph (9) above.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.6.5.1 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.6.5.1	Event Performance Measurement and Verification for Co-Located Demand Response MRAs and Other Generation MRAs
(1)	A Demand Response MRA shall be deemed by ERCOT to be co-located with an Other Generation MRA when all of the following conditions are satisfied: 
(a)	For an aggregated Demand Response MRA and an aggregated Other Generation MRA, each MRA Site in the Demand Response MRA is physically located with an MRA Site in the Other Generation MRA; 
(b)	For a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation and an Other Generation MRA that is not an aggregation, the Demand Response MRA is physically located with the Other Generation MRA;
(c)	For a Demand Response MRA that is not an aggregation and an aggregated Other Generation MRA, the Demand Response MRA is physically located with an MRA Site the Other Generation MRA;
(d)	The MRA Contracted Hours for the Demand Response MRA are the same as the MRA Contracted Hours for the Other Generation MRA; and 
(e)	The Demand Response MRA has not been classified by ERCOT as providing Weather-Sensitive MRA.
(2)	If a Demand Response MRA has been deemed by ERCOT to be co-located with an Other Generation MRA, the event performance of the two Resources shall be calculated as a combination.  For the calculations described in paragraph (2) of Section 3.14.4.6.5, MRA Event Performance Measurement and Verification, the effective base MW of the combination shall be the sum of the values calculated for the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA, the effective actual MW shall be the sum of the values calculated for the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA, and the effective contract capacity MW shall be the sum of the values calculated for the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA.
(3)	For the calculations described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.14.4.6.5, the MRAEPRF for the co-located combination shall be calculated as the time-weighted average of the interval performance factors calculated for the combination of the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA. The steps described in paragraphs (4) through (10) of Section 3.14.4.6.5 shall be followed for the combination of the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA, and the MRAEPRF for the Demand Response MRA and Other Generation MRA for the MRA Contracted Month shall be equal to the MRAEPRF calculated for the combination for the MRA Contracted Month.

[NPRR885 and NPRR1246:  Insert applicable portions of Section 3.14.4.7 below upon system implementation for NPRR885; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
3.14.4.7	MRA Testing 
(1)	ERCOT shall conduct a test of every MRA prior to the initial MRA Contracted Month.
(2)	ERCOT may conduct an unannounced test of any MRA at any time during a MRA Contracted Month.  Testing for MRAs, other than for Demand Response MRAs classified as providing Weather-Sensitive MRA, will be limited to no more than once per MRA Contracted Month.  Testing for Demand Response MRAs classified as Weather-Sensitive MRA will be limited to no more than twice per MRA Contracted Month.
(3)	ERCOT will not conduct an unannounced test of an MRA during a calendar month subsequent to an actual MRA deployment event.
(4)	A substituted Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA will be subject to monthly unannounced testing regardless of tests or events occurring prior to the start date of the substitution.
(5)	ERCOT shall limit the duration of MRA deployment periods of any single test to a maximum of one hour.
(6)	For the purposes of Section 6.6.6.7, MRA Standby Payment, ERCOT may adjust the testing capacity results for a Generation Resource MRA or an ESR MRA to reflect conditions beyond the control of the Generation Resource MRA or ESR MRA.

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.8 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.8	MRA Misconduct Events 
(1)	With respect to MRA Service, a “Misconduct Event” means any MRA Contracted Hour during which the MRA, in a deployment event, is directed to but does not make available to ERCOT the power injection or Demand response in the amount shown in the MRA Availability Plan.  
(2)	ERCOT will charge a QSE representing an MRA for unexcused Misconduct Events as specified in Section 6.6.6.11, MRA Charge for Unexcused Misconduct.
(3)	ERCOT will assess a single charge to the QSE for each Operating Day on which one or more Misconduct Event occurs.    
(4)	The QSE may be excused by ERCOT from a Misconduct Event charge if ERCOT determines, in its discretion, that the Misconduct Event was not due to intentionally incomplete or inaccurate reporting to ERCOT regarding the availability of the MRA.
(5)	ERCOT shall inform the QSE in writing of its determination if a Misconduct Event is deemed unexcused. 

[NPRR885:  Insert Section 3.14.4.9 below upon system implementation:]
3.14.4.9	MRA Reporting to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs)
(1)	At least 24 hours before the beginning of an MRA Contracted Month, ERCOT shall provide the report described in paragraph (2) below to each TDSP that has a Demand Response MRA or Other Generation MRA within their service area that is providing MRA Service for the MRA Contracted Month.
(2) 	The report will include the following information for each MRA and MRA Site within the TDSP’s service area:
(a)	The name of the QSE representing each MRA or MRA Site;
(b)	A list of the Resource IDs, ESI IDs, and Unique Meter IDs for each MRA or MRA Site;
(c)	The date of the interconnection agreement for each Resource ID; and
(d)	For each Operating Hour, the aggregate contracted capacity for all MRAs and MRA Sites within the TDSP’s service area, by station code in competitive areas and by zip code in NOIE areas.
(3)	Reports provided under this section are Protected Information under Section 1.3.1.1, Items Considered Protected Information.  TDSPs shall maintain the confidentiality of the reports. 
3.14.5	Firm Fuel Supply Service
(1)	Each Generation Resource providing or offering to provide Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS), including the primary and any alternate Generation Resources identified in the FFSS Offer Submission Form, must meet technical requirements specified in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards, and Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(2)	ERCOT shall issue an RFP by August 1 of each year soliciting offers from QSEs for Generation Resources to provide FFSS.  The RFP shall require offers to be submitted on or before September 1 of each year. 
(3)	QSEs may submit offers individually for one or more Generation Resources to provide FFSS using the FFSS Offer Submission Form posted on the ERCOT website.  A QSE may not submit an offer for a given Generation Resource unless it is the QSE designated by the Resource Entity associated with that Generation Resource.  ERCOT must evaluate offers using criteria identified in an appendix to the RFP.  ERCOT will issue FFSS awards by September 30 and will post the awards to the MIS Certified Area for each QSE that is awarded an FFSS obligation.  The posting will include information such as, but not limited to, the identity of the primary Generation Resource and any alternate Generation Resource(s), the FFSS clearing price, the amount of reserved fuel associated with the FFSS award, the MW amount awarded, and the Generation Resource’s initial minimum LSL when providing FFSS.  The RFP awards shall cover a period beginning November 15 of the year in which the RFP is issued and ending on March 15 of the year after the year in which the RFP is issued.  A QSE may submit an offer for one or more Generation Resources to provide FFSS beginning in the same year the RFP is issued or as otherwise specified in the RFP.  An FFSS Resource (FFSSR) shall be considered an FFSSR and is required to provide FFSS from November 15 through March 15 for each year of the awarded FFSS obligation period.  ERCOT shall ensure FFSSRs are procured and deployed as necessary to maintain ERCOT System reliability during, or in preparation for, a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption.
(a)	On the FFSS Offer Submission Form, the QSE shall disclose information including, but not limited to, the Generation Resource and any alternate Generation Resource(s), the amount of reserved fuel offered, the MW available from the capacity offered, an estimate of the time to restock fuel reserves, and each limitation of the offered Generation Resource that could affect the Generation Resource’s ability to provide FFSS.  
(b)	If the QSE offers a Generation Resource as meeting the qualification requirements in paragraph (1)(c) of Section 8.1.1.2.1.6, Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource Qualification, Testing, Decertification, and Recertification, the QSE must submit as part of its offer a certification for the offered Generation Resource.  The certification must include:  
(i)	Certification that the Generation Entity for the Generation Resource (or an Affiliate) has a Firm Transportation Agreement, firm natural gas supply, and contracted or owned storage capacity meeting the qualification requirements in paragraph (1)(c) of Section 8.1.1.2.1.6; 
(ii)	The following information regarding the Firm Transportation Agreement:
(A)	FFSS Qualifying Pipeline name;
(B)	Term; 
(C)	Primary points of receipt and delivery; 
(D)	Maximum daily contract quantity (in MMBtu);
(E)	Shipper of record; and
(F)	Whether the Firm Transportation Agreement provides for ratable receipts and deliveries; and
(iii)	The following information regarding the storage arrangements:
(A)	Storage facility name;
(B)	Term of the Firm Gas Storage Agreement (if applicable);
(C)	Maximum storage quantity owned or contracted under the Firm Gas Storage Agreement (in MMBtu); and
(D)	Maximum daily withdrawal quantity (in MMBtu).
(c)	For a Generation Resource to be eligible to receive an FFSS award, the primary Generation Resource and any alternate Generation Resource(s) identified in the FFSS Offer Submission Form shall complete all applicable testing requirements as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.6.  A QSE representing an FFSSR is allowed to provide the FFSS with an alternate Resource previously approved by ERCOT to replace the FFSSR.
(d)	An offer to provide FFSS is an offer to supply an awarded amount of capacity, maintain a sufficient amount of reserved fuel to meet that award for the duration requirement specified in the RFP, and to designate a specific number of emissions hours that will be reserved for the awarded FFSSR in meeting its obligation to perform in the event that FFSS is deployed.  Reserved fuel, emissions hours, and other attributes, in excess of what is needed to meet the FFSS obligation can be used at the discretion of the QSE as long as sufficient fuel reserves and emissions hours are maintained for the purposes of ERCOT deployment of FFSS.  
(e)	Within ten Business Days of issuing FFSS awards, ERCOT will post on the ERCOT website the identity of all Generation Resources that were offered as primary Generation Resources or alternate Generation Resources to provide FFSS for the most recent procurement period, including prices and quantities offered.
(4)	The QSE for an FFSSR shall ensure that the Resource is prepared and able to come On-Line or remain On-Line in order to maintain Resource availability in the event of a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption. 
(a)	When ERCOT issues a Watch for winter weather, ERCOT will notify all Market Participants, including all QSEs representing FFSSRs, to begin preparation for potential FFSS deployment.  Such preparation may include, but is not limited to, circulation of alternate fuel to its facilities, if applicable; heat fuel oil to appropriate temperatures, if applicable; call out additional personnel as necessary, and be ready to receive a Dispatch Instruction to provide FFSS.  An FFSSR may begin consuming a minimum amount of alternate fuel to validate it is ready for an FFSS deployment.
(b)	In anticipation of or in the event of a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption to an FFSSR, the QSE shall notify ERCOT as soon as practicable and may request approval to deploy FFSS to generate electricity.  ERCOT shall evaluate system conditions and may approve the QSE’s request.  The QSE shall not deploy the FFSS unless approved by ERCOT.  Upon approval to deploy FFSS, ERCOT shall issue an FFSS Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the QSE.  ERCOT may issue separate VDIs for each Operating Day for each FFSSR that is deployed for FFSS.
(c)	In conjunction with a QSE notification under paragraph (b) above, the QSE shall also report to ERCOT any environmental limitations that would impair the ability of the FFSSR to provide FFSS for the required duration of the FFSS award.
(d)	ERCOT may issue an FFSS VDI without a request from the QSE, however ERCOT shall not issue an FFSS VDI without evidence of an impending or actual fuel supply disruption affecting the FFSSR. 
(e)	If the FFSSR is generating at a level above the FFSS MW awarded amount and that level of output cannot be sustained for the required duration of the FFSS award, ERCOT may use a manual High Dispatch Limit (HDL) override to ensure the FFSSR can continue to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the entire FFSS duration requirement specified in the RFP.
(f)	The FFSSR shall continuously deploy FFSS to generate electricity until the earlier of (i) the exhaustion of the fuel reserved to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP, including any fuel that was restocked following approval or instruction from ERCOT, (ii) the fuel supply disruption no longer exists, or (iii) ERCOT determines the FFSS deployment is no longer needed.  Upon satisfying one of these qualifications, ERCOT shall terminate the VDI.  In the event of (i), the FFSSR shall not be obligated to continue being available for FFSS deployment for the remainder of the Watch.  In the event of (ii) or (iii), the FFSSR shall continue being available for FFSS deployment for the remainder of the Watch.
(g)	The QSE for the FFSSR is responsible for communicating with the ERCOT control room the anticipated exhaustion of the reserved fuel at least six hours before that anticipated exhaustion and upon the exhaustion of that fuel.
(h)	A QSE shall notify the ERCOT control room of the anticipated exhaustion of emissions credits or permit allowances at least six hours before the exhaustion of those credits or allowances.  Upon receiving such notification, ERCOT shall modify the VDI so the FFSS deployment is terminated upon exhaustion of those credits or allowances.
(i)	Upon deployment or recall of FFSS, ERCOT shall notify all Market Participants that such deployment or recall has been made, including the MW capacity of service deployed or recalled.
(5)	Following each deployment of FFSS, the QSE for an FFSSR may request approval from ERCOT via email to FFSS@ercot.com, or ERCOT may instruct the QSE to restock their fuel reserve to restore their ability to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP as follows:
(a)	The QSE requests preliminary approval from ERCOT control room, or ERCOT provides preliminary instruction, to restock and provide ERCOT an initial estimated timeline to complete the refueling.
(b)	After receiving preliminary approval or instruction from ERCOT, the QSE shall:
(i)	Immediately provide a final estimate for completing the restocking of fuel; or 
(ii)	Within 24 hours, notify the ERCOT control room with an updated estimated timeline to complete the restocking of the fuel.
(c)	Based on the most recent expected time needed to restock the fuel, the ERCOT control room may or may not provide final approval for restocking of the fuel.  
(d)	If ERCOT makes final approval to restock the fuel, the QSE representing the FFSSR shall inform the ERCOT control room immediately when restocking is complete.
(6)	Following final approval from ERCOT, a QSE must restock their fuel reserve, using existing fuel inventories or new fuel purchases, to restore their ability to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the specified duration requirement.  In the event ERCOT does not receive the request to restock from a QSE representing an FFSSR, but the QSE no longer has sufficient reserved fuel to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the specified duration requirement, the QSE shall communicate to the ERCOT control room this reduced capability and ERCOT may instruct the QSE to restock the fuel reserve as described in paragraph (5) above.
(7)	For a Resource to be considered as an alternate for providing FFSS, the following requirements must be met.  The alternate Resource must:
(a)	Be able to provide net real power sufficient to generate at the same FFSS MW award level as the primary Resource for the duration requirement specified in the RFP;
(b)	Be a single Generation Resource, as registered with ERCOT; and 
(c)	Use the same source of fuel reserve for providing FFSS as the primary Resource.
(8)       An FFSS Offer Submission Form may have up to three alternate Generation Resources per primary Resource offering to provide FFSS.  
(9)	For FFSSRs with approved alternate Generation Resources if the FFSSR becomes unavailable, the QSE must: 
(a)	As soon as practicable, notify ERCOT via email to FFSS@ercot.com and inform ERCOT that the FFSSR will be replaced by one of the alternate Generation Resources, specify which alternate Generation Resource (if multiple alternate Generation Resources have been designated), and provide an estimate of how long the replacement will be in effect;
(b)	Update the Availability Plans for these Generation Resources to reflect current operating conditions within 60 minutes after identifying the change in availability of the FFSSR; and 
(c)	Update the COPs for these Generation Resources within 60 minutes after identifying the change in availability of the FFSSR.
(10)	For FFSSRs that were replaced by one of their approved alternate Generation Resources, when the primary Resource is once again the FFSSR, the QSE must notify ERCOT of the change via email to the email address provided in paragraph (9)(a) above as soon as practicable.
(11)	An FFSSR providing BSS must have sufficient fuel reserved to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP in addition to any fuel required for the Generation Resource to meet the contracted BSS obligation.  Any remaining fuel reserve in addition to that required for meeting FFSS and BSS obligations can be used at the QSE’s discretion.
(12)	If ERCOT issues an FFSS VDI to an FFSSR for the same Operating Hour where a RUC instruction was issued, then for Settlement purposes ERCOT will consider the RUC instruction as cancelled.
(13)	If FFSS is deployed, then ERCOT will provide a report to the TAC or its designated subcommittee within 45 days of the end of the FFSS obligation period.  The report must include the Resources deployed and the reason for any deployments. 
(14)	Any QSE that submits an offer or receives an award for a SWGR to provide FFSS, and the Resource Entity that owns or controls that SWGR, shall: 
(a)	Not nominate the SWGR to satisfy supply adequacy or capacity planning requirements in any Control Area other than the ERCOT Region during the period of the FFSS obligation; and
(b)	Take any further action requested by ERCOT to ensure that ERCOT will be classified as the “Primary Party” for the SWGR under any agreement between ERCOT and another CAO during the period of the FFSS obligation.
(15)	On an annual basis after the FFSS season, ERCOT will provide a report separately for the total amounts from Section 6.6.14.1, Firm Fuel Supply Service Fuel Replacement Costs Recovery, and Section 6.6.14.2, Firm Fuel Supply Service Hourly Standby Fee Payment and Fuel Replacement Cost Recovery, to the TAC or its designated subcommittee.
3.15	Voltage Support
(1)	ERCOT, in coordination with the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), shall establish and update, as necessary, the ERCOT System Voltage Profile and shall post it on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.  ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or that TSP’s agent, may modify the Voltage Set Point described in the Voltage Profile based on current system conditions. 
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (i) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT, in coordination with the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), shall establish and update, as necessary, the ERCOT System Voltage Profile and shall post it on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or that TSP’s agent, may modify the Voltage Set Point described in the Voltage Profile based on current system conditions.
(2)	All Generation Resources (including self-serve generating units) and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) that are connected to Transmission Facilities and that have a gross unit rating greater than 20 MVA or those units connected at the same Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB) that have gross unit ratings aggregating to greater than 20 MVA, that supply power to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, shall provide Voltage Support Service (VSS).
(3)	Except as reasonably necessary to ensure reliability or operational efficiency, TSPs should utilize available static reactive devices prior to requesting a Voltage Set Point change from a Generation Resource or ESR.
(4)	Each Generation Resource and ESR required to provide VSS shall comply with the following Reactive Power requirements in Real-Time operations when issued a Voltage Set Point by a TSP or ERCOT:  
(a)	An over-excited (lagging or producing) power factor capability of 0.95 or less determined at the unit's maximum net power to be supplied to the ERCOT Transmission Grid and for any Voltage Set Point from 0.95 per unit to 1.04 per unit, as measured at the POIB;
(b)	An under-excited (leading or absorbing) power factor capability of 0.95 or less, determined at the unit's maximum net power to be supplied to the ERCOT Transmission Grid and for any Voltage Set Point from 1.0 per unit to 1.05 per unit, as measured at the POIB;  
(c)	For any Voltage Set Point outside of the voltage ranges described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Generation Resource or ESR shall supply or absorb the maximum amount of Reactive Power available within its inherent capability and the capability of any VAr-capable devices as necessary to achieve the Voltage Set Point;
(d)	When a Generation Resource or an ESR required to provide VSS is issued a new Voltage Set Point, that Generation Resource or ESR shall make adjustments in response to the new Voltage Set Point, regardless of whether the current voltage is within the tolerances identified in paragraph (4) of Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.7.3.5, Resource Entity Responsibilities and Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource Requirements;
(e)	For Generation Resources, the Reactive Power capability shall be available at all MW output levels and may be met through a combination of the Generation Resource’s Corrected Unit Reactive Limit (CURL), which is the generating unit’s dynamic leading and lagging operating capability, and/or dynamic VAr-capable devices.  This Reactive Power profile is depicted graphically as a rectangle.  For Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs), the Reactive Power requirements shall be available at all MW output levels at or above 10% of the IRR’s nameplate capacity.  When an IRR is operating below 10% of its nameplate capacity and is unable to support voltage at the POIB, ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or that TSP’s agent may require an IRR to disconnect from the ERCOT System for purposes of maintaining reliability.  For ESRs, the Reactive Power capability shall be available at all MW levels, when charging or discharging, and may be met through a combination of the ESR’s CURL, and/or dynamic VAr-capable devices.  For any ESR that achieved Initial Synchronization before December 16, 2019, the requirement to have Reactive Power capability when charging does not apply if the Resource Entity for the ESR has submitted a notarized attestation to ERCOT stating that, since the date of Initial Synchronization, the ESR has been unable to comply with this requirement without physical or software changes/modifications, and ERCOT has provided written confirmation of the exemption to the Resource Entity.  The exemption shall apply only to the extent of the ESR’s inability to comply with the requirement when the ESR is charging.
(f)	For any Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) that is part of a Self-Limiting Facility, the capabilities described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be determined based on the Self-Limiting Facility’s established MW Injection limit and, if applicable, established MW Withdrawal limit.
(5)	As part of the technical Resource testing requirements prior to the Resource Commissioning Date, all Generation Resources and ESRs must conduct an engineering study, and demonstrate through performance testing, the ability to comply with the Reactive Power capability requirements in paragraph (4), (7), (8), or (9) of this Section, as applicable.  Any study and testing results must be accepted by ERCOT prior to the Resource Commissioning Date.
(6)	Except for a Generation Resource or an ESR subject to Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, Applicability, a Generation Resource or an ESR that has already been commissioned is not required to submit a new reactive study or conduct commissioning-related reactive testing, as described in paragraph (5) above.
(7)	Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) that commenced operation on or after February 17, 2004, and have a signed Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA) on or before December 1, 2009 (“Existing Non-Exempt WGRs”), must be capable of producing a defined quantity of Reactive Power to maintain a set point in the Voltage Profile established by ERCOT in accordance with the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above, except in the circumstances described in paragraph (a) below.  
(a)	Existing Non-Exempt WGRs whose current design does not allow them to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above must conduct an engineering study using the Summer/Fall 2010 on-peak/off-peak Voltage Profiles, or conduct performance testing to determine their actual Reactive Power capability.  Any study or testing results must be accepted by ERCOT.  The Reactive Power requirements applicable to these Existing Non-Exempt WGRs will be the greater of: the leading and lagging Reactive Power capabilities established by the Existing Non-Exempt WGR’s engineering study or testing results; or Reactive Power proportional to the real power output of the Existing Non-Exempt WGR (this Reactive Power profile is depicted graphically as a triangle) sufficient to provide an over-excited (lagging) power factor capability of 0.95 or less and an under-excited (leading) power factor capability of 0.95 or less, both determined at the WGR’s set point in the Voltage Profile established by ERCOT, and both measured at the POIB.
(i)	Existing Non-Exempt WGRs shall submit the engineering study results or testing results to ERCOT no later than five Business Days after its completion.
(ii)	Existing Non-Exempt WGRs shall update any and all Resource Registration data regarding their Reactive Power capability documented by the engineering study results or testing results.
(iii)	If the Existing Non-Exempt WGR’s engineering study results or testing results indicate that the WGR is not able to provide Reactive Power capability that meets the triangle profile described in paragraph (a) above, then the Existing Non-Exempt WGR will take steps necessary to meet that Reactive Power requirement depicted graphically as a triangle by a date mutually agreed upon by the Existing Non-Exempt WGR and ERCOT.  The Existing Non-Exempt WGR may meet the Reactive Power requirement through a combination of the WGR’s Unit Reactive Limit (URL) and/or automatically switchable static VAr-capable devices and/or dynamic VAr-capable devices.  No later than five Business Days after completion of the steps to meet that Reactive Power requirement, the Existing Non-Exempt WGR will update any and all Resource Registration data regarding its Reactive Power and provide written notice to ERCOT that it has completed the steps necessary to meet its Reactive Power requirement.
(iv)	For purposes of measuring future compliance with Reactive Power requirements for Existing Non-Exempt WGRs, results from performance testing or the Summer/Fall 2010 on-peak/off-peak Voltage Profiles utilized in the Existing Non-Exempt WGR’s engineering study shall be the basis for measuring compliance, even if the Voltage Profiles provided to the Existing Non-Exempt WGR are revised for other purposes.
(b)	Existing Non-Exempt WGRs whose current design allows them to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above (depicted graphically as a rectangle) shall continue to comply with that requirement.  ERCOT, with cause, may request that these Existing Non-Exempt WGRs provide further evidence, including an engineering study, or performance testing, to confirm accuracy of Resource Registration data supporting their Reactive Power capability.
(8)	Qualified Renewable Generation Resources (as described in Section 14, State of Texas Renewable Energy Credit Trading Program) in operation before February 17, 2004, required to provide VSS and all other Generation Resources required to provide VSS that were in operation prior to September 1, 1999, whose current design does not allow them to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above, will be required to maintain a Reactive Power requirement as defined by the Generation Resource’s URL that was submitted to ERCOT and established per the criteria in the ERCOT Operating Guides.
(9)	New generating units connected before May 17, 2005, whose owners demonstrate to ERCOT’s satisfaction that design and/or equipment procurement decisions were made prior to February 17, 2004, based upon previous standards, whose design does not allow them to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above, will be required to maintain a Reactive Power requirement as defined by the Generation Resource’s URL that was submitted to ERCOT and established per the criteria in the Operating Guides.
(10)	For purposes of meeting the Reactive Power requirements in paragraphs (4) through (9) above, multiple units including IRRs shall, at a Resource Entity’s option, be treated as a single Resource if the units are connected to the same transmission bus.
(11)	Resource Entities may submit to ERCOT specific proposals to meet the Reactive Power requirements established in paragraph (4) above by employing a combination of the CURL and added VAr capability, provided that the added VAr capability shall be automatically switchable static and/or dynamic VAr devices.  A Resource Entity and TSP may enter into an agreement in which the proposed static VAr devices can be switchable using Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  ERCOT may, at its sole discretion, either approve or deny a specific proposal, provided that in either case, ERCOT shall provide the submitter an explanation of its decision.
(12)	A Resource Entity and TSP may enter into an agreement in which the Generation Resource or ESR compensates the TSP to provide VSS to meet the Reactive Power requirements of paragraph (4) above in part or in whole.  The TSP shall certify to ERCOT that the agreement complies with the Reactive Power requirements of paragraph (4).
(13)	Unless specifically approved by ERCOT, no unit equipment replacement or modification at a Generation Resource or ESR shall reduce the capability of the unit below the Reactive Power requirements that applied prior to the replacement or modification.
(14)	Generation Resources or ESRs shall not reduce high reactive loading on individual units during abnormal conditions without the consent of ERCOT unless equipment damage is imminent.
(15)	All WGRs must provide a Real-Time SCADA point that communicates to ERCOT the number of wind turbines that are available for real power and Reactive Power injection into the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  WGRs must also provide two other Real-Time SCADA points that communicate to ERCOT the following:
(a)	The number of wind turbines that are not able to communicate and whose status is unknown; and 
(b)	The number of wind turbines out of service and not available for operation.
(16)	All PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) must provide a Real-Time SCADA point that communicates to ERCOT the capacity of PhotoVoltaic (PV) equipment that is available for real power and Reactive Power injection into the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  PVGRs must also provide two other Real-Time SCADA points that communicate to ERCOT the following:
(a)	The capacity of PV equipment that is not able to communicate and whose status is unknown; and
(b)	The capacity of PV equipment that is out of service and not available for operation.  
[NPRR1029:  Insert paragraph (17) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(17)	Each DC-Coupled Resource must provide a Real-Time SCADA point that communicates to ERCOT the capacity of the intermittent renewable generation component of the Resource that is available for real power and/or Reactive Power injection into the ERCOT System.  Each DC-Coupled Resource must also provide Real-Time SCADA points that communicate to ERCOT the following:
(a)	The capacity of any PV generation equipment that is not able to communicate and whose status is unknown; 
(b)	The capacity of any PV generation equipment that is out of service and not available for operation;  
(c)	The number of any wind turbines that are not able to communicate and whose status is unknown; and 
(d)	The number of any wind turbines out of service and not available for operation.
(17)	For the purpose of complying with the Reactive Power requirements under this Section 3.15, Reactive Power losses that occur on privately-owned transmission lines behind the POIB may be compensated by automatically switchable static VAr-capable devices.
3.15.1	ERCOT Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support
(1)	ERCOT, in coordination with the TSPs, shall establish, and update as necessary, a Voltage Profile at the POIB for each Generation Resource and ESR required to provide VSS to maintain system voltages within established limits.
(2)	ERCOT shall communicate to the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) and TSPs the desired voltage at the POIB by providing Voltage Profiles.
(3)	ERCOT, in coordination with TSPs, shall deploy static Reactive Power Resources as required to continuously maintain dynamic reactive reserves from QSEs, both leading and lagging, adequate to meet ERCOT System requirements. 
[NPRR1098:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	ERCOT, in coordination with TSPs, shall deploy static Reactive Power Resources as required to continuously maintain dynamic reactive reserves from QSEs and Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), both leading and lagging, adequate to meet ERCOT System requirements.
(4)	For any Market Participant’s failure to meet the Reactive Power voltage control requirements of these Protocols, ERCOT shall notify the Market Participant in writing of such failure and, upon a request from the Market Participant, explain whether and why the failure must be corrected.
(5)	ERCOT shall notify all affected TSPs of any alternative requirements it approves.
(6)	Annually, ERCOT shall review Distribution Service Provider (DSP) power factors using the actual summer Load and power factor information included in the annual Load data request to assess whether DSPs comply with the requirements of this subsection.  At times selected by ERCOT, ERCOT shall require manual power factor measurement at substations and points of interconnection for Load that do not have power factor metering.  ERCOT shall try to provide DSPs sufficient notice to perform the manual measurements.  ERCOT may not request more than four measurements per calendar year for each DSP substation or points of interconnection for Load where power factor measurements are not available.
(7)	If actual conditions indicate probable non-compliance of TSPs and DSPs with the requirements to provide voltage support, ERCOT shall require power factor measurements at the time of its choice while providing sufficient notice to perform the measurements.
(8)	ERCOT shall investigate claims of TSP and DSP alleged non-compliance with Voltage Support requirements. The ERCOT investigator shall advise ERCOT and TSP planning and operating staffs of the results of such investigations. 
3.15.2	DSP Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support
(1)	Each DSP and Resource Entity within a Private Use Network shall meet the requirements specified in this subsection, or at their option, may meet alternative requirements specifically approved by ERCOT.  Such alternative requirements may include requirements for aggregated groups of Facilities.
(a)	Sufficient static Reactive Power capability shall be installed by a DSP or a Resource Entity within a Private Use Network not subject to a DSP tariff in substations and on the distribution voltage system to maintain at least a 0.97 lagging power factor for the maximum net active power measured in aggregate on the distribution voltage system.  In those cases where a Private Use Network’s power factor is established and governed by a DSP tariff, a Resource Entity within a Private Use Network shall ensure that the Private Use Network meets the requirements as defined and measured in the applicable tariff.  
(b)	DSP substations whose annual peak Load has exceeded ten MW shall have and maintain Watt/VAr metering sufficient to monitor compliance; otherwise, DSPs are not required to install additional metering to determine compliance.
(c)	All DSPs shall report any changes in their estimated net impact on ERCOT as part of the annual Load data assessment.
(d)	As part of the annual Load data assessment, all Resource Entities owning Generation Resources shall provide an annual estimate of the highest potential affiliated MW and MVAr Load (including any Load netted with the generation output) and the highest potential MW and MVAr generation that could be experienced at the POIB, based on the current configuration (and the projected configuration if the configuration is going to change during the year) of the Generation Resource and any affiliated Loads.
3.15.3	Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource Requirements Related to Voltage Support
(1)	Generation Resources and ESRs required to provide VSS shall have and maintain Reactive Power capability at least equal to the Reactive Power capability requirements specified in these Protocols and the ERCOT Operating Guides.
(2)	Generation Resources and ESRs providing VSS shall be compliant with the ERCOT Operating Guides for response to transient voltage disturbance.
(3)	Generation Resources and ESRs providing VSS must meet technical requirements specified in Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing, and the performance standards specified in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards.
(4)	Each Generation Resource and ESR providing VSS shall operate with the unit’s Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR) in the automatic voltage control mode unless specifically directed to operate in manual mode by ERCOT, or when the unit is telemetering its Resource Status as STARTUP, SHUTDOWN, or ONTEST, or the QSE determines a need to operate in manual mode due to an undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment at the generating plant.
(5)	Each Generation Resource and ESR providing VSS shall maintain the Voltage Set Point established by ERCOT, the interconnecting TSP, or the TSP’s agent, subject to the Generation Resource’s or ESR’s operating characteristic limits, voltage limits, and within tolerances identified in paragraph (4) of Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.7.3.5, Resource Entity Responsibilities and Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource Requirements.
(6)	The reactive capability required must be maintained at all times that the Generation Resource or ESR is On-Line.
(7)	Each QSE shall send to ERCOT, via telemetry, the AVR and Power System Stabilizer (PSS) status for each of its Generation Resources providing VSS.  Each QSE shall send to ERCOT via telemetry the AVR status for each of its ESRs providing VSS.  For AVRs, an “On” status will indicate the AVR is on and set to regulate the Resource’s terminal voltage in the voltage control mode, and an “Off” status will indicate the AVR is off or in a manual mode.  For PSS, an “On” status will indicate the service is enabled and ready for service, and an “Off” status will indicate it is off or out of service.  Each QSE shall monitor the status of its Generation Resources’ and ESRs’ regulators and stabilizers, and shall report status changes to ERCOT.
(8)	Each Resource Entity shall provide information related to the tuning parameters, local or inter-area, of any PSS installed at a Generation Resource.
(9)	If any individual Resource within a Self-Limiting Facility is incapable of meeting its Reactive Power requirement at the POI, the QSE must bring On-Line additional Resource(s) within the Self-Limiting Facility to provide VSS as specified in paragraph (4) of Section 3.15, Voltage Support, while respecting the limit on MW Injection.
(10)	The Resource Entity for an IRR synchronized to the ERCOT System that is not capable of providing Reactive Power when not producing real power shall:
(a)	When capable of providing real power, set the IRR’s Low Sustained Limit (LSL) to 0 MW, or the lowest MW level, not to exceed 1 MW, at which the IRR can provide stable Reactive Power after appropriate tuning of settings;
(b)	Ensure the lowest MW point on the submitted reactive capability curve reflects 0 MVAr leading and lagging reactive capability at 0 MW; 
(c)	Ensure the second-lowest MW point on the submitted reactive capability curve accurately reflects the IRR’s leading and lagging reactive capability at its LSL when the LSL is not 0 MW; and
(d)	Send to ERCOT, via telemetry, an AVR status of “Off” when the IRR is synchronized to the ERCOT System and not producing Reactive Power.
(11)	The Resource Entity for an IRR synchronized to the ERCOT System that is capable of providing any net Reactive Power when not producing real power shall:
(a)	Provide stable Reactive Power output at all MW levels at which the IRR has Reactive Power capability; 
(b)	When capable of providing real power, set the IRR LSL to 0 MW or the lowest MW level, not to exceed 1 MW, at which the IRR can provide stable Reactive Power after appropriate tuning of settings;
(c)	Ensure the lowest MW point on the submitted reactive capability curve accurately reflects the IRR’s MVAr leading and lagging reactive capability when not producing real power; 
(d)       Ensure the second-lowest MW point on the submitted reactive capability curve accurately reflects the IRR’s leading and lagging reactive capability at its LSL when the LSL is not 0 MW;
(e)	Send to ERCOT, via telemetry, an AVR status of “On” when the IRR is synchronized to the ERCOT System, not producing real power, and reactive control is working properly; and
(f)	Meet the requirements in paragraphs (2), (4), (5), and (7) above when the IRR is synchronized to the ERCOT System and not producing real power.
(12)	The Resource Entity for an IRR that is capable of providing any net Reactive Power when not producing real power may physically desynchronize its inverters from the ERCOT System instead of providing Reactive Power when not producing real power.

[NPRR1098:  Insert Section 3.15.4 below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
3.15.4	Direct Current Tie Owner and Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) Responsibilities Related to Voltage Support
(1)	The following Direct Current Ties (DC Ties) are subject to the Reactive Power capability requirements specified in these Protocols and the ERCOT Operating Guides:
(a)	Any DC Tie with an initial energization date after January 1, 2021.
(b)	Any DC Tie that is modified by increasing the physical capacity of the DC Tie by 20 MW or more or by changing the power converter associated with the DC Tie, unless the replacement is in-kind.
(2)	The owner of a DC Tie meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) above shall ensure that the DC Tie Facility has the following Reactive Power capabilities:
(a)	An over-excited (lagging or producing) power factor capability of 0.95 or less determined at the DC Tie’s physical capacity at any voltage from 0.95 per unit to 1.04 per unit, as measured at the Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB);
(b)	An under-excited (leading or absorbing) power factor capability of 0.95 or less determined at the DC Tie’s physical capacity at any voltage from 1.0 per unit to 1.05 per unit, as measured at the POIB;
(c)	Reactive Power capability shall be available at all MW levels, whether injecting or withdrawing power, and may be met through a combination of the DC Tie’s dynamic leading and lagging operating capability and/or dynamic VAr-capable devices.
(3)	The owner of a DC Tie meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) above must conduct an engineering study demonstrating the ability of the DC Tie Facility to meet the Reactive Power requirements in paragraph (2) above.  Any study results must be accepted by ERCOT prior to the initial energization date of the DC Tie.
(4)	ERCOT may, with notice, require performance testing to demonstrate a DC Tie Facility’s ability to meet the Reactive Power requirements in paragraph (2) above.
(5)	Each Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) operating a DC Tie Facility meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) above shall comply with any instruction from its designated Transmission Operator (TO) with respect to the DC Tie’s reactive power capability, including any instruction to maintain a target voltage at the POIB, subject to the DC Tie’s operating characteristic limits and voltage limits, and within the tolerances identified in paragraph (2) of Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.7.3.6, DCTO Responsibilities and DC Tie Requirements, and subject to any superseding Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT.
(6)	The owner of a DC Tie meeting the applicability requirements of paragraph (1) above shall implement a control system to control all devices at a DC Tie Facility needed to meet the Reactive Power requirements in paragraph (2) above.  
(a)	The control system shall be operated in automatic voltage control mode unless ERCOT directs the DCTO to operate the system in manual mode.
(b)	The DCTO shall provide to its designated TO, via telemetry, the status of the control system.  An “On” status will indicate that the control system is on and set to regulate the voltage at the DC Tie’s POIB in automatic voltage control mode, and an “Off” status will indicate that the control system is off or in manual mode.
3.16	Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities
(1)	ERCOT shall comply with the requirements for determining Ancillary Service quantities as specified in these Protocols and the ERCOT Operating Guides.
(2)	ERCOT shall, at least annually, determine with supporting data, the methodology for determining the quantity requirements for each Ancillary Service needed for reliability, including:
(a)	The percentage or MW limit of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) allowed from Load Resources providing ECRS;
(b)	The maximum amount (MW) of Responsive Reserve (RRS) that can be provided by Resources capable of Fast Frequency Response (FFR);
[NPRR1128:  Replace item (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	The maximum amount (MW) of Responsive Reserve (RRS) that can be provided by Resources capable of Fast Frequency Response (FFR) and specify the Operating Hours where prioritizing procurement of FFR up to the maximum FFR amount is beneficial in improving reliability;
(c) 	The maximum amount (MW) of Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) that can be provided by Resources providing Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up); and 
(d)	The maximum amount (MW) of Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) that can be provided by Resources providing Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down).  
[NPRR1007:  Delete items (c) and (d) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(e)	The minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response shall not be less than 1,150 MW.
(3)	The ERCOT Board shall review and recommend approval of ERCOT's methodology for determining the minimum Ancillary Service requirements, any minimum capacity required from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) dispatchable Resources to provide Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), the minimum capacity required from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response to provide RRS, the maximum amount of RRS that can be provided by Resources capable of FFR, the maximum amount of RRS that an individual Resource can provide using Primary Frequency Response, and the maximum amount of Reg-Up and Reg-Down that can be provided by Resources providing FRRS-Up and FRRS-Down.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the ERCOT Methodologies for Determining Minimum Ancillary Service Requirements approved by the ERCOT Board.  Any such recommendations require approval by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) prior to implementation.
[NPRR1007, NPRR1128, NPRR1171, and NPRR1213:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1128, or NPRR1171; or upon system implementation and upon system implementation of NPRR1171 for NPRR1213:]
(3)	The ERCOT Board shall review and recommend approval of ERCOT's methodology for determining the minimum Ancillary Service requirements, any minimum capacity required from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) dispatchable Resources to provide Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), the maximum amount of Non-Spin that can be provided by Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs) and Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs) that are interconnected to a distribution circuit that is subject to Load shed, the maximum amount of ECRS that can be provided by DGRs and DESRs that are interconnected to a distribution circuit that is subject to Load shed, the minimum capacity required from Resources providing Primary Frequency Response to provide RRS, the maximum amount of RRS that can be provided by Resources capable of FFR, the maximum amount of RRS that an individual Resource can provide using Primary Frequency Response, and the Operating Hours where prioritizing procurement of FFR up to the maximum FFR amount is beneficial in improving reliability.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the ERCOT Methodologies for Determining Minimum Ancillary Service Requirements approved by the ERCOT Board.  Any such recommendations require approval by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) prior to implementation.
(4)	If ERCOT determines a need for additional Ancillary Service Resources under these Protocols or the ERCOT Operating Guides, after an Ancillary Service Plan for a specified day has been posted, ERCOT shall inform the market by posting notice on the ERCOT website, of ERCOT’s intent to procure additional Ancillary Service Resources under Section 6.4.9.2, Supplemental Ancillary Services Market.  ERCOT shall post the reliability reason for the increase in service requirements.
[NPRR1007:  Delete paragraph (4) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(5)	Monthly, ERCOT shall determine and post on the ERCOT website a minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response.  The remaining capacity required for RRS may be supplied by all Resources qualified to provide RRS, provided that RRS from Load Resources on high-set under-frequency relays and Resources providing FFR shall be limited to 60% of the total ERCOT RRS requirement.  ERCOT may increase the minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response if it believes that the current posted quantity will have a negative impact on reliability or if it would require additional Regulation Service to be deployed.
[NPRR1128:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	Monthly, ERCOT shall determine and post on the ERCOT website a minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response.  The remaining capacity required for RRS may be supplied by all Resources qualified to provide RRS, provided that RRS from Load Resources on high-set under-frequency relays and Resources providing FFR shall be limited to 60% of the total ERCOT RRS requirement.  ERCOT may increase the minimum capacity required from Resources providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response if it believes that the current posted quantity will have a negative impact on reliability or if it would require additional Regulation Service to be deployed.  ERCOT may add more Operating Hours where prioritizing procurement of FFR up to the maximum FFR amount is beneficial in improving reliability if it believes that these additional hours are vulnerable to low system inertia.  ERCOT will issue an operations notice when such a change is made.
(6)	The amount of RRS that a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) can self-arrange using a Load Resource excluding Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) and Resources providing FFR is limited to its Load Ratio Share (LRS) of the capacity allowed to be provided by Resources not providing RRS using Primary Frequency Response established in paragraph (5) above, provided that RRS from these Resources shall be limited to 60% of the total ERCOT RRS requirement.
(7)	However, a QSE may offer more of the Load Resource above the percentage limit established by ERCOT for sale of RRS to other Market Participants.  The total amount of RRS using the Load Resource procured by ERCOT is also limited to the capacity established in paragraph (5) above, up to the lesser of the 60% limit or the limit established by ERCOT in paragraph (5) above.
(8)	Monthly, ERCOT shall determine and post on the ERCOT website a minimum capacity required from Resources providing ECRS.  The amount of Load Resources excluding CLRs that may or may not be on high-set under-frequency relays providing ECRS is limited to 50% of the total ERCOT ECRS requirement. 
(9)	The amount of ECRS that a QSE can self-arrange using a Load Resource excluding CLRs is limited to the lower of: 
(a)	50% of its ECRS Ancillary Service Obligation; or
(b)	A reduced percentage of its ECRS Ancillary Service Obligation based on the limit established by ERCOT in paragraph (8) above.  
(10)	A QSE may offer more of the Load Resource above the percentage limit established by ERCOT for sale of ECRS to other Market Participants.  The total amount of ECRS using the Load Resource excluding CLRs procured by ERCOT is also limited to the lesser of the 50% limit or the limit established by ERCOT in paragraph (9) above.
(11)	The maximum MW amount of capacity from Resources providing FRRS-Up is limited to 65 MW.  ERCOT may reduce this limit if it believes that this amount will have a negative impact on reliability or if this limit would require additional Regulation Service to be deployed.
(12)	The maximum MW amount of capacity from Resources providing FRRS-Down is limited to 35 MW.  ERCOT may reduce this limit if it believes that this amount will have a negative impact on reliability or if this limit would require additional Regulation Service to be deployed.
(13)	Resources can only provide FRRS-Up or FRRS-Down if awarded Regulation Service in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) for that particular Resource, up to the awarded quantity.
[NPRR1007:  Delete paragraphs (11)-(13) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
3.17	Ancillary Service Capacity Products 
3.17.1	Regulation Service 
(1)	Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Up capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency. A Generation Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to increase energy output when deployed and decrease energy output when recalled.  A Load Resource providing Reg-Up must be able to decrease Load when deployed and increase Load when recalled.  Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up) is a subset of Reg-Up Service in which the participating Resource provides Reg-Up capacity to ERCOT within 60 cycles of either its receipt of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction or the detection of a trigger frequency independent of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Up by a Load Frequency Control (LFC) signal.  The LFC signal for FRRS-Up is separate from the LFC signal for other Reg-Up.   
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Up capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency. A Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) in discharge mode providing Reg-Up must be able to increase energy output when deployed and decrease energy output when recalled.  A Load Resource or ESR in charge mode providing Reg-Up must be able to decrease Load when deployed and increase Load when recalled.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Up by a Load Frequency Control (LFC) signal.
(2)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Down capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency.  A Generation Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to decrease energy output when deployed and increase energy output when recalled. A Load Resource providing Reg-Down must be able to increase Load when deployed and decrease Load when recalled.  Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down) is a subset of Reg-Down Service in which a participating Resource provides Reg-Down capacity to ERCOT within 60 cycles of either its receipt of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction or the detection of a trigger frequency independent of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Down by an LFC signal.  The LFC signal for FRRS-Down is separate from the LFC signal for other Reg-Down.
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) is a service that provides capacity that can respond to signals from ERCOT within five seconds to respond to changes from scheduled system frequency.  The amount of Reg-Down capacity is the amount of capacity available from a Resource that may be called on to change output as necessary to maintain proper system frequency.  A Generation Resource or ESR in discharge mode providing Reg-Down must be able to decrease energy output when deployed and increase energy output when recalled. A Load Resource or ESR in charge mode providing Reg-Down must be able to increase Load when deployed and decrease Load when recalled.  ERCOT dispatches Reg-Down by an LFC signal.
3.17.2	Responsive Reserve Service 
(1)	Responsive Reserve (RRS) is a service used to restore or maintain the frequency of the ERCOT System in response to a significant frequency deviation.  
(2)	RRS is automatically self-deployed by Resources in a manner that results in real power increases or decreases.
(3)	RRS may be provided by:  
(a)	On-Line Generation Resource capable of providing Primary Frequency Response with the capacity excluding Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity (NFRC); 
(b)	Resources capable of providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) and sustaining their response for up to 15 minutes; 
(c)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays;
(d)	Controllable Load Resources (CLRs); and
(e)	Generation Resources operating in synchronous condenser fast-response mode as defined in the Operating Guides. 
[NPRR1246:  Insert item (f) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(f)	ESRs.
3.17.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Service
(1)	Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) is provided by using:
(a)	Generation Resources, whether On-Line or Off-Line, capable of: 
(i)	Being synchronized and ramped to a specified output level within 30 minutes; and 
(ii)	Running at a specified output level for at least four consecutive hours;
(b)	Controllable Load Resources qualified for Dispatch by Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) and capable of:
(i)	Ramping to an ERCOT-instructed consumption level within 30 minutes; and 
(ii)	Consuming at the ERCOT-instructed level for at least four consecutive hours; or 
(c)	Load Resources that are not Controllable Load Resources and are qualified for deployment by the operator using the Ancillary Service Deployment Manager and capable of:
(i)	Reducing consumption based on an ERCOT Extensible Markup Language (XML) instruction within 30 minutes; and 
(ii)	Maintaining that deployment until recalled.
[NPRR1246:  Insert item (d) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(d)	ESRs.
(2)	The Non-Spin may be deployed by ERCOT to increase available reserves in Real-Time Operations.  
3.17.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service 
(1)	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) is a service that is provided using capacity that can be sustained at a specified level for two consecutive hours and is used to restore or maintain the frequency of the ERCOT System:
(a)	In response to significant depletion of RRS;
(b)	As backup Regulation Service; and
(c)	By providing energy to avoid getting into or during an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA).
(2)	ECRS may be provided through one or more of the following means:  
(a)	From On-Line or Off-Line Resources as prescribed in the Operating Guides following a significant frequency deviation in the ERCOT System; and
(b)	Either manually or by using a four-second signal to provide energy on deployment by ERCOT.
(3)	ECRS may be used to provide energy prior to or during the implementation of an EEA.  ECRS provides Resource capacity, or capacity from interruptible Load available for deployment on ten minutes’ notice. 
(4)	ECRS may be provided by:  
(a)	Unloaded, On-Line Generation Resource capacity; 
(b)	Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs); 
(c)        Load Resources that may or may not be controlled by high-set, under-frequency relays; 
(d)	Controllable Load Resources; and
(e)	Generation Resources operating in synchronous condenser fast-response mode as defined in the Operating Guides.
[NPRR1246:  Insert item (f) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(f)	ESRs.
3.18	Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service 
(1)	For both Generation Resources and Load Resources the High Sustained Limit (HSL) must be greater than or equal to the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and the sum of the Resource-specific designation of capacity to provide Responsive Reserve (RRS), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin).
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	For Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), and Load Resources the High Sustained Limit (HSL) must be greater than or equal to the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and the sum of the Resource-specific awards for Responsive Reserve (RRS), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin).
(2)	For Non-Spin, the amount of Non-Spin provided must be less than or equal to the HSL for Off-Line Generation Resources.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	For Non-Spin, the amount of Non-Spin awarded must be less than or equal to the HSL for Off-Line Generation Resources.
(3)	For RRS:
(a)	The full amount of RRS using Primary Frequency Response awarded to or self-arranged from an On-Line Resource is dependent upon the verified droop characteristics of the Resource.  ERCOT shall calculate and update, using the methodology described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment N, Procedure for Calculating RRS MW Limits for Individual Resources to Provide RRS Using Primary Frequency Response, a maximum MW amount of RRS using Primary Frequency Response for each Resource subject to verified droop performance.  The default value for any newly qualified Resource not yet evaluated per Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment N shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide;  
(b)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may provide RRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz.  Once deployed, a Resource telemetering a Resource Status of ONRR shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule of zero, and when recalled by ERCOT after frequency recovers above 59.98 Hz, such Resource shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule that shall be a non-zero value equal to its RRS Ancillary Service Responsibility; 
(c)	The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting for Load Resources providing RRS shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz; and
(d)	The amount of RRS provided from a Resource capable of providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) must be less than or equal to its 15-minute rated capacity.  The initiation setting of the automatic self-deployment of the Resource providing RRS as FFR must be no lower than 59.85 Hz.  A Resource providing RRS as FFR that is deployed shall not recall its capacity until system frequency is greater than 59.98 Hz.  Once deployed, a Resource telemetering a Resource Status of ONFFRRRS or ONFFRRRSL shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule of zero, and when recalled, such Resource shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule that shall be a non-zero value equal to its RRS Ancillary Service Responsibility.  Once recalled, a Resource providing RRS as FFR must restore its full RRS Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility within 15 minutes after cessation of deployment or as otherwise directed by ERCOT. 
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	For RRS:
(a)	The full amount of RRS using Primary Frequency Response that can be provided by an On-Line Resource is dependent upon the verified droop characteristics of the Resource.  ERCOT shall calculate and update, using the methodology described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment N, Procedure for Calculating RRS MW Limits for Individual Resources to Provide RRS Using Primary Frequency Response, a maximum MW amount of RRS using Primary Frequency Response for each Resource subject to verified droop performance.  The default value for any newly qualified Resource not yet evaluated per Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment N shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide;  
(b)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may be awarded RRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; 
(c)	The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting for Load Resources providing RRS shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz; and
(d)	The amount of RRS awarded to a Resource capable of providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) must be less than or equal to its 15-minute rated capacity.  The initiation setting of the automatic self-deployment of the Resource providing RRS as FFR must be no lower than 59.85 Hz.
(4)	For ECRS:
(a)	The full amount of ECRS provided from an On-Line Generation Resource must be less than or equal to ten times the Emergency Ramp Rate;
(b)	The full amount of ECRS provided by a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) must be less than or equal to its proven ten-minute capability as demonstrated pursuant to paragraph (16) of Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements; 
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may provide ECRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; and 
(d)	For any Load Resources controlled by under-frequency relay and providing ECRS, the initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz.  To provide ECRS, Load Resources are not required to be controlled by under-frequency relays.
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	For ECRS:
(a)	The full amount of ECRS that can be awarded to an On-Line Generation Resource or ESR must be less than or equal to ten times the Emergency Ramp Rate;
(b)	The full amount of ECRS that can be awarded to a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) must be less than or equal to its proven ten-minute capability as demonstrated pursuant to paragraph (16) of Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements; 
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may be awarded ECRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; and 
(d)	For any Load Resources controlled by under-frequency relay and awarded ECRS, the initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz.  To provide ECRS, Load Resources are not required to be controlled by under-frequency relays.
3.19	Constraint Competitiveness Tests
3.19.1	Constraint Competitiveness Test Definitions
(1)	The Constraint Competitiveness Test (CCT) checks the competitiveness of a constraint by evaluating each Market Participant’s ability to exercise market power by physical or economic withholding.  The CCT for a constrained Transmission Element evaluates whether there is sufficient competition to resolve the constraint on the import side by calculating the Element Competitiveness Index (ECI) on the import side of the constraint and by determining whether a single Entity is needed to resolve the constraint. 
(2)	The competitiveness of a constraint is tested both on a long-term basis and before each Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) execution. 
(3)	The “Available Capacity for a Resource” is defined as follows:
(a)	For Generation Resources, including Switchable Generation Resources (SWGRs), but excluding Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs):
(i)	Long-Term CCT - the Seasonal net max sustainable rating, as registered with ERCOT.
(ii)	SCED CCT - the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) for Resources with telemetered Resource Status as specified in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, and zero for all other Resources.
(b)	For IRRs: 
(i)	Long-Term CCT - the Seasonal net max sustainable rating, as registered with ERCOT, on the export side and zero MW on the import side.
(ii)	SCED CCT - the telemetered HSL for Resources with telemetered Resource Status as specified in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1 and zero for all other Resources.
(c)	For the Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) lines, the full import capability on the export side and zero MW on the import side for all CCTs.
[NPRR1182:  Insert paragraph (d) below upon system implementation:]
(d)	For Controllable Load Resources:
(i)	Long-Term CCT - the maximum interruptible Load MW, as registered with ERCOT. 
(ii)	SCED CCT - the telemetered Maximum Power Consumption (MPC) minus the telemetered Low Power Consumption (LPC) for Resources with a telemetered Resource Status as specified in paragraph (5)(b)(iii) of Section 3.9.1, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of OUTL.

[NPRR1182:  Insert paragraph (e) below upon system implementation of NPRR1014 and NPRR1182:]
(e)	For Energy Storage Resources (ESRs):
(i)	Long-Term CCT - the Seasonal net max sustainable rating minus the Seasonal net min sustainable rating, as registered with ERCOT.
(ii)	SCED CCT - for Resources with a telemetered Resource Status as specified in paragraph (5)(b)(iv) of Section 3.9.1, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of OUT, the minimum of:
(A)	The telemetered HSL minus the telemetered Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for the Resource; and
(B)	The telemetered max State of Charge minus the min State of Charge for the Resource divided by 15 minutes.
(4)	“Managed Capacity for an Entity” is a Resource for which a Decision Making Entity (DME) has control over how the Resource is offered or scheduled (e.g., Output Schedules), in accordance with subsection (d) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.502, Pricing Safeguards in Markets Operated by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas.
(5)	Shift Factors of all Electrical Buses are computed relative to the distributed load reference Bus. 
(a)	For voltage, stability, and thermal-limited constraints, as well as interfaces represented by thermal limits, the Shift Factors should be computed with no other contingencies removed from the electrical network.
(b)	For contingency-limited constraints, the Shift Factors used should be computed with the contingencies removed from the electrical network.
(6)	As part of the Long-Term and SCED CCT processes described below, there are several thresholds used in determining the competitive designation of a constraint and the Resources for which mitigation will be applied in SCED Step 2, as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.  These thresholds are defined as follows: 
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	As part of the Long-Term and SCED CCT processes described below, there are several thresholds used in determining the competitive designation of a constraint and the Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, for which mitigation will be applied in SCED Step 2, as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.  These thresholds are defined as follows:

Threshold	Definition	Value
SFP1	Minimum Shift Factor threshold for determining which Managed Capacity for an Entity to include in the ECI calculation	 2%
ECIT1	Maximum competitive threshold for ECI on the import side of a constraint for the Long-Term CCT process	2000
SFP2	Minimum Shift Factor threshold for a constraint to be eligible to be a Competitive Constraint as part of the Long-Term CCT process	2%
ECIT2	Maximum competitive threshold for ECI on the import side of a constraint for the SCED CCT process	2300
SFP3	Minimum Shift Factor threshold for a constraint to be eligible to be a Competitive Constraint as part of the SCED CCT process	2%
DMEECP	Threshold for the ECI Effective Capacity for a DME to determine if their Managed Capacity for an Entity is eligible to be mitigated as part of SCED Step 2	10%
SFP4	Minimum Shift Factor threshold below which a Resource will not have mitigation applied in SCED Step 2	2%
3.19.2	Element Competitiveness Index Calculation
(1)	To compute the ECI on the import side, first determine the “ECI Effective Capacity” available to resolve the constraint.  The ECI Effective Capacity that each Entity contributes to resolve the constraint on the import side is determined by taking, for each Managed Capacity for an Entity having negative Shift Factors with absolute values greater than the minimum of one-third of the highest absolute value of any Resource Shift Factor with a negative value and SFP1, the sum of the products of (a) the Available Capacity for a Resource and (b) the square of the Shift Factor of that Resource to the constraint.
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	To compute the ECI on the import side, first determine the “ECI Effective Capacity” available to resolve the constraint.  The ECI Effective Capacity that each Entity contributes to resolve the constraint on the import side is determined by taking, for each Managed Capacity for an Entity having Shift Factors that can help resolve the constraint by increasing power injection or reducing power withdrawal with absolute values greater than the minimum of one-third of the highest absolute value of any Resource Shift Factor meeting this criterion and SFP1, the sum of the products of (a) the Available Capacity for a Resource and (b) the square of the Shift Factor of that Resource to the constraint.
(2)	ERCOT will determine the ECI on the import of the constraint, as follows:
(a)	Determine the total ECI Effective Capacity by each DME on the import side.  
(b)	Determine the percentage of ECI Effective Capacity by each DME on the import side by taking each DME’s ECI Effective Capacity and dividing by the total ECI Effective Capacity on the import side.
(c)	The ECI on the import side is equal to the sum of the squares of the percentages of ECI Effective Capacity for each DME on the import side.
3.19.3	Long-Term Constraint Competitiveness Test
(1)	The Long-Term CCT process is executed once a year and provides a projection of Competitive Constraints for the month with the highest forecasted Demand in the following year.  
(2)	The Long-Term CCT performs analysis on a selected set of constraints.  
(3)	A constraint is classified as a Competitive Constraint for the monthly case if it meets all of the following conditions:
(a)	The ECI is less than ECIT1 on the import side of the constraint;
(b)	The constraint can be resolved by eliminating all Available Capacity for a Resource on the import side, except nuclear capacity and minimum-energy amounts of coal and lignite capacity, that is Managed Capacity for a DME during peak Load conditions; and
(c)	There are negative Shift Factors corresponding to Electrical Buses with Available Capacity for a Resource that have an absolute value greater than or equal to SFP2.
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	There are Shift Factors corresponding to Electrical Buses with Available Capacity for a Resource that can help resolve the constraint by increasing power injection or reducing power withdrawal that have an absolute value greater than or equal to SFP2.
(4)	Any constraint that is analyzed and does not meet the conditions in paragraph (3) above will be designated as a Non-Competitive Constraint for the monthly case.
(5)	ERCOT shall update and post the list of Competitive Constraints identified by the Long-Term CCT on the MIS Secure Area.  The list of Competitive Constraints shall be posted at least 30 days prior to the first of the year.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	ERCOT shall update and post the list of Competitive Constraints identified by the Long-Term CCT on the ERCOT website.  The list of Competitive Constraints shall be posted at least 30 days prior to the first of the year.
3.19.4	Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch Constraint Competitiveness Test
(1)	The SCED CCT uses current system conditions to evaluate the competitiveness of a constraint. 
(2)	Before each SCED execution, CCT is performed for all active constraints in SCED.  The SCED CCT shall classify a constraint as competitive for the current SCED execution if the constraint meets all of the following conditions:
(a)	The ECI is less than ECIT2 on the import side;
(b)	The constraint can be resolved by eliminating all Available Capacity for a Resource on the import side, except nuclear capacity and minimum-energy amounts of coal and lignite capacity, that is Managed Capacity for a DME.  If the constraint cannot be resolved, then the DME will be marked as the pivotal player for resolving the constraint;
(c)	There are negative Shift Factors corresponding to Electrical Buses with Available Capacity for a Resource that have an absolute value greater than or equal to SFP3; and
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	There are Shift Factors corresponding to Electrical Buses with Available Capacity for a Resource that can help resolve the constraint by increasing power injection or reducing power withdrawal that have an absolute value greater than or equal to SFP3; and
(d)	The constraint was not designated as non-competitive by a previous SCED CCT execution within the current Operating Hour.
(3)	Any constraint that is analyzed and is not designated as a Competitive Constraint under the conditions outlined in paragraph (2) above shall be designated as a Non-Competitive Constraint by the SCED CCT.
(4)	A constraint that is determined to be a Non-Competitive Constraint by the SCED CCT within an Operating Hour will not be re-evaluated for its competitiveness status for the remainder of that Operating Hour.  However, the SCED CCT will reevaluate the percentage of the ECI Effective Capacity on the import side for each DME and whether the DME is a pivotal player for the constraint.  SCED will re-evaluate the competitiveness of the Non-Competitive Constraint starting with the first SCED interval of the next Operating Hour if the constraint remains active in SCED.
(5)	The Independent Market Monitor (IMM) may designate any constraint as a Competitive Constraint or a Non-Competitive Constraint.  ERCOT shall provide notice describing any such designation by the IMM.  The notice shall include an effective date, justification for the constraint designation by the IMM and the duration for which the IMM designation will be applied.  Any such designation from the IMM shall override the competitiveness status determined by the SCED CCT for the dates for which the IMM override is effective.
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website whether each binding constraint was designated as a Competitive Constraint or as a Non-Competitive Constraint for each of the SCED executions during the previous Operating Hour.
(7)	Mitigation will be applied to a Resource in the SCED Step 2, as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, when all of the following conditions are met:
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(7)	Mitigation will be applied to a Resource, excluding Controllable Load Resources, in the SCED Step 2, as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, when all of the following conditions are met:
(a)	A constraint has been determined to be a Non-Competitive Constraint by either the SCED CCT or the IMM;
(b)	The DME for the Resource is either identified as a pivotal player for the constraint as described in paragraph (4) above or has a percentage of ECI Effective Capacity on the import side for the constraint greater than DMEECP; and
(c)	The Resource has a Shift Factor on the import side of the constraint with an absolute value greater than SFP4;
(8)	Once mitigation has been applied to a Resource for a SCED interval, it shall remain applied for the remainder of the Operating Hour regardless of the conditions listed in paragraph (7) above.
3.20	Identification of Chronic Congestion
(1)	A constraint that has been binding in Real-Time on three or more Operating Days within a calendar month shall be considered to be experiencing chronic congestion.
3.20.1	Evaluation of Chronic Congestion
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate chronic congestion monthly and shall report the results of its evaluation to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee(s).  The report must identify the constraint(s) causing the chronic congestion.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate chronic congestion monthly and shall report on the ERCOT website the results of its evaluation to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee(s).  The report must identify the constraint(s) causing the chronic congestion.
3.20.2	Topology and Model Verification
(1)	For constraints identified in the report required by Section 3.20.1, Evaluation of Chronic Congestion, ERCOT shall notify the appropriate Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)) or Resource Entity.  The TSP or Resource Entity must verify that the data in the Network Operations Model and Updated Network Model is accurate, including the Ratings of the Transmission Facility causing the binding transmission constraint.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	For constraints identified in the report required by Section 3.20.1, Evaluation of Chronic Congestion, ERCOT shall notify the appropriate Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)), Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO), or Resource Entity.  The TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity must verify that the data in the Network Operations Model and Updated Network Model is accurate, including the Ratings of the Transmission Facility causing the binding transmission constraint.
(2)	If ERCOT determines that the Network Operations Model, the Updated Network Model, or the configuration of the Transmission Facility may be inaccurate, ERCOT shall coordinate with the owner of the Transmission Facility to determine if the Ratings should be updated, as provided by paragraph (3) of Section 3.10, Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry.
3.21	Submission of Declarations of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination
(1)	As part of its submission to ERCOT in connection with subsection (c)(3)(B) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.55, Weather Emergency Preparedness, each Resource Entity representing one or more Generation Resources subject to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.55 that uses natural gas as its primary fuel shall submit to ERCOT the declaration in Section 22, Attachment K, Declaration of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination, stating that the Resource Entity or its Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) made a documented effort to communicate with the operator of each natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource to coordinate regarding potential impacts to the Generation Resource’s availability during the summer Peak Load Season of that year.
(2)	If a Resource Entity or its QSE knows an activity or condition related to a natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource will cause the Generation Resource’s unavailability, in whole or in part, the QSE shall, as soon as practicable, report that Outage or derate in the ERCOT Outage Scheduler in accordance with Section 3.1, Outage Coordination.  An Outage or derate reported in the ERCOT Outage Scheduler need not be disclosed in the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, nor reported under paragraph (4) below. 
(3)	If, before a Resource Entity submits the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, the Resource Entity or its QSE is notified by an operator of a natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource of an activity or condition (e.g. maintenance, inspection, malfunction, or third-party damage) that may limit or impede normal deliveries but is uncertain whether the activity or condition during the upcoming summer Peak Load Season will cause the Generation Resource to take an Outage or derate, the Resource Entity shall disclose the natural gas pipeline activity or condition in the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, if the activity or condition materially increases the risk of Generation Resource unavailability during the summer Peak Load Season.  The Resource Entity shall use its reasonable judgment to determine whether there is a material increase in the risk of unavailability.
(4)	If, after submitting the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, any previously disclosed information changes or a Resource Entity or its QSE receives new information about an activity or condition that may limit or impede normal natural gas deliveries and materially increases the risk of Generation Resource unavailability during the summer Peak Load Season, the Resource Entity shall disclose that information to ERCOT as soon as practicable.  The Resource Entity shall use reasonable judgment to determine the risk of unavailability.  When notifying ERCOT as required under this paragraph, the Resource Entity shall update the information required by paragraphs (3)(a)-(e) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination section of Section 22, Attachment K, for the affected Generation Resource by sending an email to the email address designated by ERCOT.  
(5)	In complying with its obligations in this Section 3.21, a Resource Entity or its QSE relies upon communications with and information received from operators of natural gas pipelines directly connected to the Resource Entity’s Generation Resource.  The Resource Entity or its QSE shall act in good faith to request the required information and, as soon as practicable, share with each other any information received from a natural gas pipeline operator required to be disclosed to ERCOT under Section 3.21.  The Resource Entity or its QSE need not warrant the accuracy or completeness of information received from the natural gas pipeline operator and subsequently disclosed to ERCOT.
 3.22	Subsynchronous Resonance
(1)	All series capacitors shall have automatic Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) protective relays installed and shall have remote bypass capability.  The SSR protective relays shall remain in-service when the series capacitors are in-service.
3.22.1	Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment
(1)	In the SSR vulnerability assessment, each transmission circuit is considered as a single Outage.  A common tower Outage of two circuits or the Outage of a double-circuit transmission line will be considered as two transmission Outages.
3.22.1.1 	Existing Generation Resource Assessment
(1)	ERCOT shall perform a one-time SSR vulnerability assessment on all existing Generation Resources as described in paragraphs (a) through (f) below.  For the purposes of this Section, a Generation Resource is considered an existing Generation Resource if it satisfies Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, on or before August 12, 2013.  
(a)	ERCOT shall perform a topology-check on all existing Generation Resources.  
(b)	If during the topology-check ERCOT determines that an existing Generation Resource will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall perform a frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria, and will provide the frequency scan assessment results to the affected Resource Entity.
(c)	If the frequency scan assessment described in paragraph (b) above indicates potential SSR vulnerability, the Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)) that owns the affected series capacitor(s), in coordination with the interconnecting TSP, shall perform a detailed SSR analysis in accordance with Section 3.22.2 to determine SSR vulnerability, unless ERCOT, in consultation with and in agreement with of the affected TSP(s) and the affected Resource Entity, determines the frequency scan assessment is sufficient to determine the SSR vulnerability.  
(d)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (b) and/or (c) above indicates that an existing Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor(s) shall coordinate with the interconnecting TSP, ERCOT, and the affected Resource Entity to develop and implement SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system.
(e)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (b) and/or (c) above indicates that an existing Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring.
(f)	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
3.22.1.2 	Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource Interconnection Assessment
(1)	In the security screening study for a Generation Resource Interconnection or Change Request, ERCOT will perform a topology-check and determine if the Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of fewer than 14 concurrent transmission Outages.  
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	In the security screening study for a Generation Resource/Energy Storage Resource Interconnection or Change Request, ERCOT will perform a topology-check and determine if the Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of fewer than 14 concurrent transmission Outages. 
(2)	If ERCOT identifies that a Generation Resource or ESR will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of fewer than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, the interconnecting TSP shall perform an SSR study including frequency scan assessment and/or detailed SSR assessment for the Interconnecting Entity (IE) in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria, to determine SSR vulnerability.  The SSR study shall determine which system configurations create vulnerability to SSR.  Alternatively, if the IE can demonstrate to ERCOT’s and the interconnecting TSP’s satisfaction that the Generation Resource or ESR is not vulnerable to SSR, then the interconnecting TSP is not required to perform the SSR study.  If an SSR study is conducted, the interconnecting TSP shall submit it to ERCOT upon completion and shall include any SSR Mitigation plan developed by the IE that has been reviewed by the TSP.
(3)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of six or fewer concurrent transmission Outages, the IE shall develop an SSR Mitigation plan, provide it to the interconnecting TSP for review and inclusion in the TSP’s SSR study report to be approved by ERCOT, and implement the SSR Mitigation prior to Initial Synchronization.  
(a)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four concurrent transmission Outages, the IE may install SSR Protection in lieu of SSR Mitigation, as required by paragraph (3) above, if:
(i)	The Generation Resource or ESR satisfied Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, between August 12, 2013 and March 20, 2015;
(ii)	The SSR Protection is approved by ERCOT; and
(iii)	The Generation Resource or ESR installs the ERCOT-approved SSR Protection prior to Initial Synchronization.
(b)	For any Generation Resource or ESR that satisfied Planning Guide Section 6.9 before September 1, 2020, if the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, the IE may elect not to develop or implement an SSR Mitigation plan, in which case ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring.  The IE shall provide ERCOT written Notice of any such election before the Generation Resource or ESR achieves Initial Synchronization, and the Generation Resource or ESR shall not be permitted to proceed to Initial Synchronization until ERCOT has implemented SSR monitoring. 
(4)	ERCOT shall respond with its comments or approval of an SSR study report, which should include any required SSR Mitigation plan, within 30 days of receipt.  ERCOT comments should be addressed as soon as practicable by the TSP, and any action taken in response to ERCOT’s comments on an SSR study report shall be subject to further ERCOT review and approval.  Upon approval of the SSR study report, ERCOT shall notify the interconnecting TSP, and the interconnecting TSP shall provide the approved SSR study report to the IE.
3.22.1.3 	Transmission Project Assessment
(1)	For any proposed Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including a topology-check and/or frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  The TSP shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the project submission to the Regional Planning Group (RPG) pursuant to Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  For Tier 4 projects that include Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall provide the SSR assessment for ERCOT’s review.  For the purposes of this Section, a Generation Resource is considered an existing Generation Resource if it satisfies Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the Transmission Facilities are proposed.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	For any proposed Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including a topology-check and/or frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  The TSP shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the project submission to the Regional Planning Group (RPG) pursuant to Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  For Tier 4 projects that include Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall provide the SSR assessment for ERCOT’s review.  For the purposes of this Section, a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is considered an existing Generation Resource or ESR if it satisfies Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the Transmission Facilities are proposed.
(2)	If while performing the independent review of a transmission project, ERCOT determines that the transmission project may cause an existing Generation Resource or a Generation Resource satisfying Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the transmission project is proposed to become vulnerable to SSR, ERCOT shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including topology-check and frequency scan in accordance with Section 3.22.2 if such an assessment was not included in the project submission.  ERCOT shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the independent review.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	If while performing the independent review of a transmission project, ERCOT determines that the transmission project may cause an existing Generation Resource or ESR or a Generation Resource or ESR satisfying Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the transmission project is proposed to become vulnerable to SSR, ERCOT shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including topology-check and frequency scan in accordance with Section 3.22.2 if such an assessment was not included in the project submission.  ERCOT shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the independent review.
(3)	If the frequency scan assessment in paragraphs (1) or (2) above indicates potential SSR vulnerability in accordance with Section 3.22.2, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor(s), in coordination with the TSP proposing the Transmission Facilities, shall perform a detailed SSR assessment to confirm or refute the SSR vulnerability. 
(4)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.  
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource or ESR if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.
(5)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor(s) shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and implement SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed prior to RPG acceptance, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(5)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor(s) shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and implement SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed prior to RPG acceptance, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource or ESR.
(6)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(6)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource or ESR.
(7)	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
3.22.1.4 	Annual SSR Review
(1)	ERCOT shall perform an SSR review annually.  The annual review shall include the following elements: 
(a)	The annual review shall include a topology-check applying the system network topology that is consistent with a year 3 Steady State Working Group (SSWG) base case developed in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.1, Steady-State Model Development.  ERCOT shall post the SSR annual topology-check report to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area by May 31 of each year.
(b)	If ERCOT identifies that a Generation Resource will become radial to series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall perform a frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  ERCOT shall prepare a report to summarize the results of the frequency scan assessment and provide it to the Resource Entity and the affected TSP.
(i)	If the frequency scan assessment described in paragraph (b) above shows the Generation Resource has potential SSR vulnerability in the event of six or fewer concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element in coordination with the interconnecting TSP shall perform a detailed SSR assessment to confirm or refute the SSR vulnerability. 
(ii)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.  
(iii)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and install SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
(iv)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
(v) 	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	If ERCOT identifies that a Generation Resource or ESR will become radial to series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall perform a frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  ERCOT shall prepare a report to summarize the results of the frequency scan assessment and provide it to the Resource Entity and the affected TSP.
(i)	If the frequency scan assessment described in paragraph (b) above shows the Generation Resource or ESR has potential SSR vulnerability in the event of six or fewer concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element in coordination with the interconnecting TSP shall perform a detailed SSR assessment to confirm or refute the SSR vulnerability. 
(ii)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource or ESR if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.  
(iii)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and install SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource or ESR.
(iv)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource or ESR.
(v) 	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
3.22.2	Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria
(1)	A Generation Resource is considered to be potentially vulnerable to SSR in the topology-check if a Generation Resource will become radial to a series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages.  A frequency scan assessment and/or a detailed SSR assessment shall be required to screen for system conditions causing potential SSR vulnerability.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	A Generation Resource or ESR is considered to be potentially vulnerable to SSR in the topology-check if the Generation Resource or ESR will become radial to a series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages.  A frequency scan assessment and/or a detailed SSR assessment shall be required to screen for system conditions causing potential SSR vulnerability.
(2)	In determining whether a Generation Resource is considered to be potentially vulnerable to SSR in the frequency scan assessment results, the following criteria shall be considered:
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	In determining whether a Generation Resource or ESR is considered to be potentially vulnerable to SSR in the frequency scan assessment results, the following criteria shall be considered:
(a) 	Induction Generator Effect (IGE) and Subsynchronous Control Interaction (SSCI): 
(i)	When considering the total impedance of the generator and the applicable part of the ERCOT System, if the total resistance is negative at a reactance crossover of zero Ohms from negative to positive with increasing frequency, then the generator is considered to be potentially vulnerable to IGE/SSCI; 
(b) 	Torsional Interaction: 
(i)	If the sum of the electrical damping (De) plus the mechanical damping (Dm) results in a negative value then the generator is potentially vulnerable to Torsional Interaction.  Dm at +/- 1 Hz of the modal frequency may be utilized to compare to De; and 
(c) 	Torque Amplification: 
(i)	When considering the total impedance of the generator and the ERCOT system, if a 5% or greater reactance dip, or a reactance crossover of zero Ohms from negative to positive with increasing frequency, occurs within a +/- 3 Hz complement of the modal frequency, then the generator is considered to be potentially vulnerable to Torque Amplification.  The percentage of a reactance dip is on the basis of the reactance maximum at the first inflection point of the dip where the reactance begins to decrease with increasing frequency.
(3)	The detailed SSR assessment shall include an electromagnetic transient program analysis or similar analysis.  A Generation Resource is considered to be vulnerable to SSR if any of the following criteria are met:
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	The detailed SSR assessment shall include an electromagnetic transient program analysis or similar analysis.  A Generation Resource or ESR is considered to be vulnerable to SSR if any of the following criteria are met:
(a)	The SSR vulnerability results in more than 50% of fatigue life expenditure over the expected lifetime of the unit;   
(i)	If the fatigue life expenditure is not available, the highest torsional torque caused by SSR is more than 110% of the torque experienced during a transmission fault with the series capacitors bypassed;
(b)	The oscillation, if occurred, is not damped; or
(c)	The oscillation, if occurred, results in disconnection of any transmission and generation facilities.  
3.22.3 	Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring
(1)	For purposes of SSR monitoring, a common tower Outage loss of a double-circuit transmission line consisting of two circuits sharing a tower for 0.5 miles or greater is considered as one contingency.
(2)	ERCOT’s responsibilities for SSR monitoring shall consist of the following activities if a Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages identified in the SSR vulnerability assessment and does not implement SSR Mitigation: 
(a)	ERCOT shall identify the combinations of Outages of Transmission Elements that may result in SSR vulnerability and provide these Transmission Elements to the affected Resource Entity and its interconnected TSP;
(b)	ERCOT shall monitor the status of these Transmission Elements identified in paragraph (a) above; 
(c)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource being three contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT will identify options for mitigation that would be implemented if an additional transmission Outage were to occur, including communications with TSPs to determine potential Outage cancellations and time estimates to reinstate Transmission Facilities;
(d)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource being two contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall take action to mitigate SSR vulnerability to the affected Generation Resource.  ERCOT shall consider the actions in the following order unless reliability considerations dictate a different order.  Actions that may be considered are:
(i)	No action if the affected Generation Resource is equipped with SSR Protection and has elected for ERCOT to forego action to mitigate SSR vulnerability; 
(ii)	Coordinate with TSPs to withdraw or restore an Outage within eight hours if feasible;
(iii)	If the actions described in (i) and (ii) above are not feasible, ERCOT shall promptly take necessary steps to identify and mitigate the impacts to the ERCOT System caused by bypassing the affected series capacitor(s) and direct the TSP(s) to bypass the affected series capacitors(s); or
(iv)	Other actions specific to the situation, including, but not limited to, Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the Resource’s Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(e)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource being one contingency away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall promptly take necessary steps to identify and mitigate the impacts to the ERCOT System caused by bypassing the affected series capacitor(s) and direct the TSP(s) to bypass the affected series capacitor(s).
(f)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource being two or less contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall notify the QSE representing the affected Generation Resource by voice communication as soon as practicable that the SSR vulnerability scenario has occurred; initiate the mitigation actions described in paragraphs (2)(d)(i) through (iv) above; and provide additional notifications to the QSE of each relevant topology change until the affected Generation Resource(s) is at least three contingencies away from SSR vulnerability.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	ERCOT’s responsibilities for SSR monitoring shall consist of the following activities if a Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages identified in the SSR vulnerability assessment and does not implement SSR Mitigation: 
(a)	ERCOT shall identify the combinations of Outages of Transmission Elements that may result in SSR vulnerability and provide these Transmission Elements to the affected Resource Entity and its interconnected TSP;
(b)	ERCOT shall monitor the status of these Transmission Elements identified in paragraph (a) above; 
(c)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource or ESR being three contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT will identify options for mitigation that would be implemented if an additional transmission Outage were to occur, including communications with TSPs to determine potential Outage cancellations and time estimates to reinstate Transmission Facilities;
(d)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource or ESR being two contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall take action to mitigate SSR vulnerability to the affected Generation Resource or ESR.  ERCOT shall consider the actions in the following order unless reliability considerations dictate a different order.  Actions that may be considered are:
(i)	No action if the affected Generation Resource or ESR is equipped with SSR Protection and has elected for ERCOT to forego action to mitigate SSR vulnerability; 
(ii)	Coordinate with TSPs to withdraw or restore an Outage within eight hours if feasible;
(iii)	If the actions described in (i) and (ii) above are not feasible, ERCOT shall promptly take necessary steps to identify and mitigate the impacts to the ERCOT System caused by bypassing the affected series capacitor(s) and direct the TSP(s) to bypass the affected series capacitors(s); or
(iv)	Other actions specific to the situation, including, but not limited to, Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the Resource’s Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(e)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource or ESR being one contingency away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall promptly take necessary steps to identify and mitigate the impacts to the ERCOT System caused by bypassing the affected series capacitor(s) and direct the TSP(s) to bypass the affected series capacitor(s).
(f)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource or ESR being two or less contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall notify the QSE representing the affected Generation Resource or ESR by voice communication as soon as practicable that the SSR vulnerability scenario has occurred; initiate the mitigation actions described in paragraphs (2)(d)(i) through (iv) above; and provide additional notifications to the QSE of each relevant topology change until the affected Generation Resource(s) or ESR(s) are at least three contingencies away from SSR vulnerability.
3.23	Agreements between ERCOT and other Control Area Operators
(1)	Prior to executing any agreement with another Control Area Operator concerning coordination of Switchable Generation Resources (SWGRs), Direct Current Ties (DC Ties), Block Load Transfers (BLTs), or other operational issues, ERCOT shall, to the extent possible, provide Notice to all Market Participants of such agreement and at least 14 days to comment.  Amendments or modifications to such existing agreements shall also comply with this provision.
(2)	ERCOT shall consider all comments received in response to the Notice and, to the extent time allows, discuss its acceptance or rejection of comments with the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and the ERCOT Board prior to execution.
(3)	ERCOT shall provide Notice to all Market Participants following execution of any such agreement within two Business Days.
3.24	Notification of Low Coal and Lignite Inventory Levels
(1)	Each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing a Generation Resource that uses coal or lignite as its primary fuel, except as provided in paragraph (2) below, shall notify ERCOT of the following:
(a)	If the coal or lignite inventory level available for Real-Time operations is projected to fall below 15 days of operation at the High Sustained Limit (HSL) within the next 90 days, the QSE shall notify ERCOT within three days of such a projection and provide an explanation of any disruption to the coal or lignite supply.  Notifications to ERCOT should be via email, sent to FuelSupply@ERCOT.com.
(b)	If the coal or lignite inventory level available for Real-Time operations is projected to fall below 10 days of operation at the HSL within the next 90 days, the QSE shall notify ERCOT immediately of such a projection, provide an explanation of any disruption to the coal or lignite supply, and provide daily inventory updates to ERCOT until the inventory level projection increases above 15 days.  Notifications to ERCOT should be via email, sent to FuelSupply@ERCOT.com.
(2)	The requirements of paragraph (1) above do not apply to a QSE of a Generation Resource that uses coal or lignite as its primary fuel if the Generation Resource is located within 15 miles proximity of its fuel supply or was originally designed to be located within 15 miles proximity of its fuel supply and does not have the capability of storing onsite inventory for at least 30 days of operation at the HSL.  The QSE of a Generation Resource located within 15 miles of its fuel supply or that was originally designed to be located within 15 miles proximity of its fuel supply and does not have the capability of storing onsite inventory for at least 30 days of operation at the HSL must notify ERCOT of any disruption to the coal or lignite supply operations that could impact operations of the Generation Resource within two days of such disruption and provide an explanation of such disruption.  Notifications to ERCOT should be via email, sent to FuelSupply@ERCOT.com.
3.25	Submission of Gas Supply Disruption
(1)	A Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that represents a Generation Resource that relies on natural gas as the primary fuel source shall use reasonable efforts to notify ERCOT when:
(a)	A natural gas pipeline operator and/or natural gas fuel supplier issues either:
(i)	A written notification to the QSE, or an affiliate of the Generation Resource or QSE responsible for buying natural gas for the Generation Resource, in accordance with a firm contract, indicating that a gas supply disruption on a natural gas pipeline directly connected to the Generation Resource represented by the QSE is projected to occur or is currently in progress, resulting in curtailment of natural gas deliveries to the Generation Resource; or
(ii)	A written force majeure notice to the QSE, or an affiliate of the Generation Resource or QSE responsible for buying natural gas for the Generation Resource, on a natural gas pipeline directly connected to the Generation Resource represented by the QSE indicating a gas supply disruption; and
(b)	The QSE determines that the Generation Resource’s ability to supply electricity will be significantly limited by the gas supply disruption.  Notification under paragraph (1) will include a description of the potential impact to the operation of the Generation Resource.
(2)	Notwithstanding paragraph (1) above, a QSE that represents a Generation Resource that relies on natural gas as the primary fuel source shall ensure that the High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Current Operating Plan (COP) accurately reflect the amount of output the Generation Resource can produce based on an amount of natural gas that the QSE expects it can procure after exploring all accessible and reasonable options. 
(3)	Notifications shall indicate which Generation Resources are reasonably expected to be impacted by the gas supply disruption based on the criteria above and the expected timeline of the disruption, based on available information. 
(4)	Notifications to ERCOT shall be via email, sent to fuelsupply@ercot.com.


ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 4:  Day-Ahead Operations

April 1, 2025




 
4	Day-Ahead Operations	4-1
4.1	Introduction	4-1
4.1.1	Day-Ahead Timeline Summary	4-1
4.1.2	Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations	4-3
4.2	ERCOT Activities in the Day-Ahead	4-5
4.2.1	Ancillary Service Plan and Ancillary Service Obligation	4-5
4.2.1.1	Ancillary Service Plan	4-5
4.2.1.2	Ancillary Service Obligation Assignment and Notice	4-6
4.2.2	Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential	4-7
4.2.3	PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential	4-10
4.2.4	Posting Secure Forecasted ERCOT System Conditions	4-13
4.2.4.1	Posting Public Forecasted ERCOT System Conditions	4-15
4.2.5	Notice of New Types of Forecasts	4-15
4.2.6	ERCOT Notice of Validation Rules for the Day-Ahead	4-15
4.3	QSE Activities and Responsibilities in the Day-Ahead	4-16
4.4	Inputs into DAM and Other Trades	4-16
4.4.1	Capacity Trades	4-16
4.4.1.1	Capacity Trade Criteria	4-17
4.4.1.2	Capacity Trade Validation	4-17
4.4.2	Energy Trades	4-18
4.4.2.1	Energy Trade Criteria	4-18
4.4.2.2	Energy Trade Validation	4-18
4.4.3	Self-Schedules	4-19
4.4.3.1	Self-Schedule Criteria	4-19
4.4.3.2	Self-Schedule Validation	4-20
4.4.4	DC Tie Schedules	4-20
4.4.4.1	DC Tie Schedule Criteria	4-24
4.4.4.2	Management of DC Tie Schedules due to Ramp Limitations	4-25
4.4.4.3	Frequency-Based Limits on DC Tie Imports or Exports	4-25
4.4.5	[RESERVED]	4-26
4.4.6	PTP Obligation Bids	4-26
4.4.6.1	PTP Obligation Bid Criteria	4-26
4.4.6.2	PTP Obligation Bid Validation	4-28
4.4.6.3	PTP Obligations with Links to an Option DAM Award Eligibility	4-29
4.4.7	Ancillary Service Supplied and Traded	4-30
4.4.7.1	Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities	4-30
4.4.7.1.1	Negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities	4-33
4.4.7.2	Ancillary Service Offers	4-34
4.4.7.2.1	Ancillary Service Offer Criteria	4-39
4.4.7.2.2	Ancillary Service Offer Validation	4-42
4.4.7.3	Ancillary Service Trades	4-44
4.4.7.3.1	Ancillary Service Trade Criteria	4-48
4.4.7.3.2	Ancillary Service Trade Validation	4-50
4.4.7.4	Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility	4-50
4.4.8	RMR Offers	4-52
4.4.9	Energy Offers and Bids	4-53
4.4.9.1	Three-Part Supply Offers	4-53
4.4.9.2	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer	4-54
4.4.9.2.1	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Criteria	4-54
4.4.9.2.2	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Validation	4-55
4.4.9.2.3	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps	4-55
4.4.9.2.4	Verifiable Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Caps	4-57
4.4.9.3	Energy Offer Curve	4-57
4.4.9.3.1	Energy Offer Curve Criteria	4-58
4.4.9.3.2	Energy Offer Curve Validation	4-60
4.4.9.3.3	Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps	4-60
4.4.9.4	Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor	4-63
4.4.9.4.1	Mitigated Offer Cap	4-63
4.4.9.4.2	Mitigated Offer Floor	4-67
4.4.9.4.3	Mitigated Offer Cap for RMR Resources	4-68
4.4.9.5	DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves	4-69
4.4.9.5.1	DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve Criteria	4-70
4.4.9.5.2	DAM Energy-Only Offer Validation	4-71
4.4.9.6	DAM Energy Bids	4-71
4.4.9.6.1	DAM Energy Bid Criteria	4-71
4.4.9.6.2	DAM Energy Bid Validation	4-72
4.4.9.7	Energy Bid/Offer Curve	4-72
4.4.9.7.1	Energy Bid/Offer Curve Criteria	4-73
4.4.9.7.2	Energy Bid/Offer Curve Validation	4-74
4.4.10	Credit Requirement for DAM Bids and Offers	4-74
4.4.11	System-Wide Offer Caps	4-87
4.4.11.1	Scarcity Pricing Mechanism	4-90
4.4.12	Determination of Ancillary Service Demand Curves for the Day-Ahead Market and Real-Time Market	4-91
4.5	DAM Execution and Results	4-93
4.5.1	DAM Clearing Process	4-93
4.5.2	Ancillary Service Insufficiency	4-100
4.5.3	Communicating DAM Results	4-101
4.6	DAM Settlement	4-106
4.6.1	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices	4-107
4.6.1.1	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Resource Nodes	4-107
4.6.1.2	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Load Zones	4-107
4.6.1.3	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Hubs	4-108
4.6.1.4	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices at the Logical Resource Node for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource	4-108
4.6.2	Day-Ahead Energy and Make-Whole Settlement	4-109
4.6.2.1	Day-Ahead Energy Payment	4-109
4.6.2.2	Day-Ahead Energy Charge	4-111
4.6.2.3	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Settlements	4-113
4.6.2.3.1	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment	4-114
4.6.2.3.2	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge	4-120
4.6.3	Settlement for PTP Obligations Bought in DAM	4-123
4.6.4	Settlement of Ancillary Services Procured in the DAM	4-126
4.6.4.1	Payments for Ancillary Services Procured in the DAM	4-126
4.6.4.1.1	Regulation Up Service Payment	4-126
4.6.4.1.2	Regulation Down Service Payment	4-127
4.6.4.1.3	Responsive Reserve Payment	4-129
4.6.4.1.4	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Payment	4-130
4.6.4.1.5	 ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Payment	4-132
4.6.4.2	Charges for Ancillary Services Procurement in the DAM	4-133
4.6.4.2.1	Regulation Up Service Charge	4-133
4.6.4.2.2	Regulation Down Service Charge	4-135
4.6.4.2.3	Responsive Reserve Charge	4-137
4.6.4.2.4	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Charge	4-139
4.6.4.2.5	 ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Charge	4-141
4.6.5	Calculation of “Average Incremental Energy Cost” (AIEC)	4-142
 
Day-Ahead Operations
4.1	Introduction 
(1)	The Day-Ahead Market (DAM) is a daily, co-optimized market in the Day-Ahead for Ancillary Service capacity and forward financial energy and congestion transactions.  
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	The Day-Ahead Market (DAM) is a daily, co-optimized market in the Day-Ahead for forward financial energy, Ancillary Services, and congestion transactions.
(2)	Participation in the DAM is voluntary. 
(3)	DAM energy settlements use DAM Settlement Point Prices that are calculated for Resource Nodes, Load Zones, and Hubs for a one-hour Settlement Interval using the Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) from DAM.  In contrast, the Real-Time energy settlements use Real-Time Settlement Point Prices that are calculated for Resource Nodes, Load Zones, and Hubs for a 15-minute Settlement Interval.  
(4)	To the extent that the ERCOT CEO or designee determines that Market Participant activities have produced an outcome inconsistent with the efficient operation of the ERCOT administered markets as defined in subsection (c)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.503, Oversight of Wholesale Market Participants, ERCOT may prohibit the activity by Notice for a period beginning on the date of the Notice and ending no later than 45 days after the date of the Notice.  ERCOT may issue subsequent Notices on the same activity.  The ERCOT CEO may deem any Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) designed to correct the activity or issues affecting the activity as Urgent pursuant to Section 21.5, Urgent and Board Priority Nodal Protocol Revision Requests and System Change Requests.   
4.1.1	Day-Ahead Timeline Summary
(1)	The figure below shows the major activities that occur in the Day-Ahead:  


















[NPRR1008:  Replace the figure above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
 
4.1.2	Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations
(1)	ERCOT may temporarily revise the DAM transaction deadline or the time for communicating DAM results when necessary to ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that the DAM clearing process completes.  In such an event, ERCOT shall immediately issue an Advisory and notify all Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) of the following:  
(a)	Details of the affected timing and procedures;
(b)	Details of interim requirements, if any exist;
(c)	An estimate of the period for which the interim requirements apply; and
(d)	Reasons for the temporary variation.
(2)	Subject to the principles set forth in paragraph (3) below, ERCOT may omit any procedure or take any manual action necessary to ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that the DAM clearing process completes by 1900 in the Day-Ahead.  Should ERCOT omit any such procedure or take any such manual action, ERCOT will issue a Market Notice no later than 1700 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on the next Business Day that details the omitted procedures or manual actions taken by ERCOT and ERCOT’s explanation as to why they were necessary.  If the manual action taken by ERCOT requires ERCOT to omit bids or offers submitted by a particular QSE, ERCOT will provide notification to that QSE prior to taking the manual action, so long as providing such notice will not delay completion of the DAM beyond 1900 in the Day-Ahead.  
(3)	When omitting a procedure or taking a manual action under paragraph (2) above, ERCOT will act in accordance with the following principles:  
(a)	ERCOT will only act in cases in which it reasonably believes that intervention is necessary in order to complete DAM by 1900;
(b)	ERCOT will seek to minimize impacts to Market Participants and will only remove transactions from the DAM as a last resort; when ERCOT believes a QSE’s transactions need to be removed, either in whole or in part, in order to complete the DAM clearing process, ERCOT will prioritize the removal in reverse order based on submittal time, where the QSE’s most recently submitted transactions are prioritized before the removal of the earliest submitted transactions; however, the number of transactions removed will be at ERCOT’s discretion, subject to the principles set forth in this paragraph; 
(c)	Approval to act will be obtained from the applicable ERCOT executive or designee; and
(d)	ERCOT will not publish a DAM in which no transmission constraints are evaluated.
(4)	Should ERCOT omit a procedure or take manual action pursuant to paragraph (2) above, and a Market Participant is directly impacted by such ERCOT action or omission, the Market Participant may seek relief as specifically provided for under Section 9.14.10, Settlement for Market Participants Impacted by Omitted Procedures or Manual Actions to Resolve the DAM.  A Market Participant will only be entitled relief upon ERCOT’s determination that ERCOT’s action or omission pursuant to paragraph (2) above was the sole cause of the Market Participant’s injury, and the monetary value of the direct impact can be accurately determined by ERCOT.  Such relief is not available in the case that ERCOT aborts all or part of the Day-Ahead process.  A Market Participant may only seek relief due to ERCOT’s omission of a procedure or manual action under paragraph (2) above in the following circumstances:
(a)	ERCOT removed the Market Participant’s bid(s) or offer(s); 
(b)	ERCOT failed to award the Market Participant’s bid(s) or offer(s); or
(c)	ERCOT de-energized the Market Participant’s Resource(s) in the base case.
(5)	If ERCOT is unable to execute the Day-Ahead process prior to 1900 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT may abort all or part of the Day-Ahead process and require all schedules and trades to be submitted in the Adjustment Period.  In that event, ERCOT shall issue a Watch and notify all QSEs of the following:
(a)	Details of the affected timing and procedures;
(b)	Details of any interim requirements, including the requirements described in Section 5.2.2.2, RUC Process Timeline After an Aborted Day-Ahead Market;
(c)	An estimate of the period for which the interim requirements apply; and
[NPRR1008:  Delete items (b) and (c) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(d)	Reasons for the temporary variation.
(6)	If ERCOT is unable to operate the Adjustment Period process, then ERCOT may abort the Adjustment Period process and operate under its Operating Period procedures.
4.2	ERCOT Activities in the Day-Ahead
4.2.1	Ancillary Service Plan and Ancillary Service Obligation
4.2.1.1	Ancillary Service Plan
(1)	ERCOT shall analyze the expected Load conditions for the Operating Day and develop an Ancillary Service Plan that identifies the Ancillary Service MW necessary for each hour of the Operating Day.  The MW of each Ancillary Service required may vary from hour to hour depending on ERCOT System conditions.  ERCOT must post the Ancillary Service Plan to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.
(2)	If ERCOT determines that an Emergency Condition may exist that would adversely affect ERCOT System reliability, it may change the percentage of Load Resources that are allowed to provide ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) and Responsive Reserve (RRS) from the monthly amounts determined previously, as described in Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities, and must post any change in the percentage to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.  
(3)	ERCOT shall determine the total required amount of each Ancillary Service under Section 3.16, or use its operational judgment and experience to change the daily quantity of each required Ancillary Service.  
(4)	ERCOT shall include in the Ancillary Service Plan enough capacity to automatically control frequency with the intent to meet North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.
(5)	Once specified by ERCOT for an hour and published on the ERCOT website, Ancillary Service quantity requirements for an Operating Day may not be decreased. 
[NPRR1008:  Insert paragraph (6) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(6)	ERCOT shall create an Ancillary Service Demand Curve (ASDC) for each Ancillary Service as described in Section 4.4.12, Determination of Ancillary Service Demand Curves.  ERCOT must post the ASDCs to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.  If ERCOT changes the Ancillary Service Plan per Section 6.4.9.1.2, Changes to Operating Day Ancillary Service Plan, the ASDCs reflecting the change to the Ancillary Service Plan will be posted to the ERCOT website.
4.2.1.2	Ancillary Service Obligation Assignment and Notice
(1)	ERCOT shall assign part of the Ancillary Service Plan quantity, by service, by hour, to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) based on its Load Serving Entity (LSE) Load Ratio Shares (LRSs) (including the shares for Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports) aggregated by hour to the QSE level.  If the resultant QSE-level share is negative, the QSE’s share will be set to zero and all other QSE shares will be adjusted on a pro rata basis such that the sum of all shares is equal to one.  The resulting Ancillary Service quantity for each QSE, by service, by hour, is called its Ancillary Service Obligation.  ERCOT shall base the QSE Ancillary Service allocation on the QSE to LSE relationships for the operating date and on the hourly LSE LRSs from the Real-Time Market (RTM) data used for Initial Settlement for the same hour and day of the week, for the most recent day for which Initial Settlement data is available, multiplied by the quantity of that service required in the Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Plan.  The Ancillary Service Obligation defined shall be adjusted based on the most current real time settlement and resettlement data for the Operating Day for which the Ancillary Service was procured. 
(2)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its Ancillary Service Obligation for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day.
(3)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area each QSE’s LRS used for the Ancillary Service Obligation calculation.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1245:  Replace Section 4.2.1.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
4.2.1.2	Ancillary Service Obligation Assignment and Notice
(1)	ERCOT shall assign part of the Ancillary Service Plan quantity, or total Ancillary Service procurement quantity, if different, by service, by hour, to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) based on its Load Serving Entity (LSE) Load Ratio Shares (LRSs) (including the shares for Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports) aggregated by hour to the QSE level.  If the resultant QSE-level share is negative, the QSE’s share will be set to zero and all other QSE shares will be adjusted on a pro rata basis such that the sum of all shares is equal to one.  The resulting Ancillary Service quantity for each QSE, by service, by hour, is called its Ancillary Service Obligation.  ERCOT shall base the QSE Ancillary Service allocation on the QSE to LSE relationships for the operating date and on the hourly LSE LRSs from the Real-Time Market (RTM) data used for Initial Settlement for the same hour and day of the week, for the most recent day for which Initial Settlement data is available, multiplied by the quantity of that service required in the Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Plan.  The Ancillary Service Obligation defined shall be adjusted based on the most current real time settlement and resettlement data for the Operating Day for which the Ancillary Service was procured.
(2)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its advisory Ancillary Service Obligation for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day, based on the Ancillary Service Plan, as well as that QSE’s proportional limit for any Self-Arranged Ancillary Services as set forth in Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities.
(3)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area each QSE’s LRS used for both the advisory and final Ancillary Service Obligation calculations. 
(4)	After DAM has published, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its final Ancillary Service Obligation based on the total DAM Ancillary Service procurement quantity, comprised of DAM Ancillary Service awards and Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day.
4.2.2	Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of wind production potential for each Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR).  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour Wind Power Forecast (IHWPF) by wind region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide wind production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for Generation To Be Dispatched (GTBD) calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT Wind Power Forecast (TEWPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all wind-power in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  Each Generation Entity that owns a WGR shall install and telemeter to ERCOT the site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STWPF and TEWPF forecasts.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of WGR meteorological information telemetry. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of wind production potential for each Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) and for each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource.  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour Wind Power Forecast (IHWPF) by wind region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide wind production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for Generation To Be Dispatched (GTBD) calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT Wind Power Forecast (TEWPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all wind-power in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  A Resource Entity with a WGR or DC-Coupled Resource that has a wind generation component shall install equipment to enable telemetry of site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STWPF and TEWPF forecasts, and the Resource Entity’s QSE shall telemeter such information and Resource status information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of meteorological information telemetry for WGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a wind generation component.
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEWPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT WGR production is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STWPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEWPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each WGR such that the sum of the individual STWPF forecasts equal the TEWPF forecast.  The updated STWPF forecasts for each hour for each WGR are to be used as input into each Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEWPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT production of WGRs and the wind generation components of all DC-Coupled Resources is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STWPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEWPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource such that the sum of the individual STWPF forecasts equal the TEWPF forecast.  The updated STWPF forecasts for each hour for each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource are to be used as input into each Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment.
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by WGR owners including WGR availability, meteorological information, and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by Resource Entities and QSEs representing WGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with wind generation components, including Resource availability, meteorological information, and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STWPF and WGRPP forecasts for each WGR to the QSE that represents that WGR and shall post each STWPF and WGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STWPF and WGRPP forecasts for each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource to the QSE that represents that WGR or DC-Coupled Resource and shall post each STWPF and WGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
(5)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis the hourly actual wind power production, STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate Current Operating Plan (COP) High Sustained Limits (HSLs) for On-Line WGRs for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide and regional STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line WGRs will also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT shall retain the STWPF and WGRPP for each hour.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis the hourly actual wind power production, STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate Current Operating Plan (COP) High Sustained Limits (HSLs) for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide and regional STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources will also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT shall retain the STWPF and WGRPP for each hour.
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STWPF and WGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line WGRs for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STWPF and WGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
(7)	Every five minutes, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis, five-minute actual wind power production for a rolling historical 60-minute period.
4.2.3	PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of PhotoVoltaic production potential for each PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR).  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (IHPPF) by PhotoVoltaic region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide PhotoVoltaic production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for GTBD calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (TEPPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  Each Generation Entity that owns a PVGR shall install and telemeter to ERCOT the site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STPPF and TEPPF forecasts.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of PVGR meteorological information telemetry. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of PhotoVoltaic (PV) production potential for each PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR) and for the PV component of each DC-Coupled Resource.  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (IHPPF) by PhotoVoltaic region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide PhotoVoltaic production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for GTBD calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (TEPPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources and the PV components of all DC-Coupled Resources in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  A Resource Entity with a PVGR or DC-Coupled Resource that has a PV component shall install equipment to enable telemetry of site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STPPF and TEPPF forecasts, and the Resource Entity’s QSE shall telemeter such information and Resource status information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of meteorological information telemetry for PVGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a PV component. 
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEPPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT PVGR production is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STPPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEPPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each PVGR such that the sum of the individual STPPF forecasts equal the TEPPF forecast.  The updated STPPF forecasts for each hour for each PVGR are to be used as input into each RUC process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEPPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT production of PVGRs and the PV components of DC-Coupled Resources is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STPPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEPPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each PVGR and each PV component of a DC-Coupled Resource such that the sum of the individual STPPF forecasts equal the TEPPF forecast.  The updated STPPF forecasts for each hour for each PVGR and each PV component of a DC-Coupled Resource are to be used as input into each RUC process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment.
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by PVGR owners including PVGR availability, meteorological information, and SCADA.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by owners of PVGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a PV component including Resource availability, meteorological information, and SCADA.
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STPPF and PVGRPP forecasts for each PVGR to the QSE that represents that PVGR and shall post each STPPF and PVGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STPPF and PVGRPP forecasts for each PVGR and each DC-Coupled Resource with a PV component to the QSE that represents that PVGR or DC-Coupled Resource and shall post each STPPF and PVGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
(5)	After the aggregated ERCOT PVGR capacity reaches one GW and the maximum PVGR capacity ratio of a single PVGR over the total ERCOT installed PVGR capacity is at or below 60%, each hour ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide basis the hourly actual PhotoVoltaic (PV) power production, STPPF, PVGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line PVGRs for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide STPPF, PVGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line PVGRs will also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT shall retain the STPPF and PVGRPP for each hour. However, ERCOT shall post this information no later than June 1, 2016.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	Each hour ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide basis the hourly actual PhotoVoltaic (PV) power production, STPPF, PVGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line PVGRs and PV components of DC-Coupled Resources for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide STPPF, PVGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line PVGRs and PV components of DC-Coupled Resources shall also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STPPF and PVGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line PVGRs for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STPPF and PVGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line PVGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a PV component for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
(7)	After the aggregated ERCOT PVGR capacity reaches one GW and the maximum PVGR capacity ratio of a single PVGR over the total ERCOT installed PVGR capacity is at or below 60%, every five minutes, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide basis, five-minute actual PV power production for a rolling historical 60-minute period. However, ERCOT shall post this information no later than June 1, 2016.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(7)	Every five minutes, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide basis, five-minute actual PV power production from all PVGRs and PV components of DC-Coupled Resources for a rolling historical 60-minute period.
4.2.4	Posting Secure Forecasted ERCOT System Conditions
(1)	No later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area, and make available for download, the following information for the Operating Day:
(a)	For each update of the Network Operations Model, the Redacted Network Operations Model in the Common Information Model (CIM) format and the companion version of Network Operations Model (unredacted) will be posted to the MIS Certified Area for Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) as described in paragraph (9) of Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities; 
(b)	For each update of the Network Operations Model, differences between the posted Redacted Network Operations Model and the previous Redacted Network Operations Model as described in paragraph (4) of Section 3.10.4;
(c)	Load Profiles for non-Interval Data Recorder (IDR) metered Customers; 
(d)	Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs) and forecasted ERCOT-wide Transmission Loss Factors (TLFs), as described in Section 13.3, Distribution Losses, and Section 13.2, Transmission Losses, for each Settlement Interval of the Operating Day;
(e)	A current list of Electrically Similar Settlement Points produced from the 0600 Day-Ahead Market (DAM) study that support that creation of Power System Simulator for Engineering (PSS/E) files;
(f)	A daily version of the Network Operations Model in a PSS/E format that has been exported from the Market Management System prior to 0600 representing the next Operating Day in hourly files, inclusive of:
(i)	Outages from the Outage Scheduler implemented in the hourly PSS/E files; 
(ii)	All bus shunt MW and MVAr set to zero;
(iii)	All Load MW and MVAr set to zero;
(iv)	All generation MW and MVAr set to zero; and
(v)	Slack bus used in the DAM shall be represented at the same bus in each case; and
(g)	A daily version of supporting files for the PSS/E files supporting the Network Operations Model that has been exported from the Market Management System prior to 0600, inclusive of:
(i)	Contingency definition corresponding to each hourly PSS/E file;
(ii)	Generator mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E file; 
(iii)	Mapping of all Resource Nodes and DC Tie Load Zone to the hourly PSS/E file including Private Use Network Settlement Points.  This file of hourly data will also include the base case energization status of Resource Node and DC Tie Load Zone reflecting Settlement Points available for DAM clearing process;
(iv)	Load mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E case necessary to model all Load Zone energy transactions in the DAM; 
(v)	Transmission line mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E files;
(vi)	Transformer mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E files; and 
(vii)	Hub mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E case necessary to model all Hub energy transactions in the DAM. 
[NPRR1188:  Insert paragraph (viii) below upon system implementation:]
(viii)	Controllable Load Resource (CLR) mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E file.
4.2.4.1	Posting Public Forecasted ERCOT System Conditions
(1)	No later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website, and make available for download, the following information for the Operating Day:
(a)	Weather assumptions used by ERCOT to forecast ERCOT System conditions and used in the Dynamic Rating Processor;  
(b)	ERCOT System, Weather Zone, Load Zone, and Study Area Load forecasts for the next seven days, by hour, and a message on update indicating any changes to the forecasts by means of the Messaging System;
(c)	A current list of all Settlement Points that may be used for market processes and transactions;  
(d)	A mapping of Settlement Points to Electrical Buses in the Network Operations Model;
(e)	A list of transmission constraints that have a high probability of binding in the Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) or DAM; and
(f)	A mapping of any Electrical Bus to another Electrical Bus for purposes of heuristic pricing as described in paragraph (8) of Section 4.5.1, DAM Clearing Process, and Section 6.6.1, Real-Time Settlement Point Prices.
4.2.5	Notice of New Types of Forecasts
(1)	Before using any new type of forecast for any operational purpose, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice stating ERCOT’s intention to use that new type of forecast and shall sponsor a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) to propose requirements for posting data for the new type of forecast.
4.2.6	ERCOT Notice of Validation Rules for the Day-Ahead
(1)	ERCOT shall provide each QSE with the information necessary to pre-validate its data for DAM, including publishing validation rules for offers, bids, and trades.
4.3	QSE Activities and Responsibilities in the Day-Ahead
(1)	During the Day-Ahead, a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE): 
(a)	Must submit its Current Operating Plan (COP) and update its COP as required in Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP); and
(b)	May submit Three-Part Supply Offers, Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Energy-Only Offers, DAM Energy Bids, Energy Trades, Self-Schedules, Capacity Trades, Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules, Ancillary Service Offers, Ancillary Service Trades, Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities, and Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bids as specified in this Section.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(b)	May submit Three-Part Supply Offers, Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Energy-Only Offers, DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, Energy Trades, Self-Schedules, Capacity Trades, Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules, Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers, DAM Ancillary Service Only Offers, Ancillary Service Trades, Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities, and Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bids as specified in this Section.
(2)	By 0600 in the Day-Ahead, each QSE representing Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units, Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS) Resources (FFSSRs), or Black Start Resources shall submit its Availability Plan to ERCOT indicating availability of RMR Units, FFSSRs, and Black Start Resources for the Operating Day and any other information that ERCOT may need to evaluate use of the units. 
4.4	Inputs into DAM and Other Trades
4.4.1	Capacity Trades 
(1)	A Capacity Trade is the information for a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)-to-QSE transaction that transfers financial responsibility for capacity between a buyer and a seller. 
(2)	A Capacity Trade for hours in the Operating Day that is reported to ERCOT before 1430 in the Day-Ahead creates:
(a)	A capacity supply in the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) process for the buyer; and
(b)	A capacity obligation in the DRUC process for the seller. 
(3)	A Capacity Trade submitted at or after 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the Operating Day creates a capacity supply or obligation in any Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) processes executed after the Capacity Trade is reported to ERCOT.  Capacity Trades submitted after the DRUC snapshot are considered in the Adjustment Period snapshot.
(4)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify each QSE through the Messaging System of any of its Capacity Trades that are invalid Capacity Trades.  The QSE may correct and resubmit any invalid Capacity Trade within the appropriate market timeline.
4.4.1.1	Capacity Trade Criteria
(1)	A Capacity Trade must be submitted by a QSE and must include the following:
(a)	The buying QSE;
(b)	The selling QSE;
(c)	The quantity in MW; and
(d)	The first hour and last hour of the trade.   
(2)	A Capacity Trade must be confirmed by both the buyer and seller to be considered valid.
4.4.1.2	Capacity Trade Validation
(1)	A validated Capacity Trade is a Capacity Trade that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.1.1, Capacity Trade Criteria.  Only one confirmed Capacity Trade is allowed for the same buying and selling QSEs for each hour.
(2)	When a Capacity Trade is reported to ERCOT, ERCOT shall notify both the buying and selling QSEs by using the Messaging System, if available, and on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.  ERCOT shall also post to the MIS Certified Area any unconfirmed Capacity Trades for QSEs on an hourly basis for all remaining hours of the current Operating Day and all hours of the next Operating Day. 
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Capacity Trades and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE named in a Capacity Trade to view confirmed and unconfirmed Capacity Trades. 
(4)	The QSE that first reports the Capacity Trade to ERCOT is deemed to have confirmed the Capacity Trade unless it subsequently affirmatively rejects it.  The QSE that first reports a Capacity Trade may reject, edit, or delete a Capacity Trade that its counterpart has not confirmed.  The counterpart is deemed to have confirmed the Capacity Trade when it submits to ERCOT an identical Capacity Trade.  After both the buyer and seller have confirmed a Capacity Trade, either party may reject it at any time, but the rejection is effective only for any ERCOT Settlement process for which the deadline for reporting Capacity Trades has not yet passed.
4.4.2	Energy Trades
(1)	An Energy Trade is the information for a QSE-to-QSE transaction that transfers financial responsibility for energy at a Settlement Point between a buyer and a seller. 
(2)	An Energy Trade for hours in the Operating Day that is reported to ERCOT before 1430 in the Day-Ahead creates a capacity supply or obligation in the DRUC process.  Energy Trades submitted after 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the Operating Day create a capacity supply or obligation in any HRUC processes executed after the Energy Trade is reported to ERCOT.  Energy Trades submitted after the DRUC snapshot are considered in the Adjustment Period.
(3)	An Energy Trade may be submitted for any Settlement Interval within an Operating Day before 1430 of the following day.  
(4)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify each QSE through the Messaging System of any of its Energy Trades that are invalid Energy Trades.  The QSE may correct and resubmit any invalid Energy Trade within the appropriate market timeline. 
4.4.2.1	Energy Trade Criteria
(1)	Each Energy Trade must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The buying QSE;
(b)	The selling QSE;
(c)	The quantity of MW for each 15-minute Settlement Interval of the trade; 
(d)	The first and last 15-minute Settlement Intervals of the trade; and
(e)	The Settlement Point of the trade.
(2)	An Energy Trade must be confirmed by both the buyer and seller to be considered valid.
4.4.2.2	Energy Trade Validation
(1)	A validated Energy Trade is an Energy Trade that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.2.1, Energy Trade Criteria.  Only one confirmed Energy Trade is allowed for the same buying and selling QSEs at the same Settlement Point for each 15-minute Settlement Interval.
(2)	When an Energy Trade is reported to ERCOT, ERCOT shall notify both the buying and selling QSEs by using the Messaging System, if available, and the MIS Certified Area.  ERCOT shall also post to the MIS Certified Area any unconfirmed Energy Trades for QSEs on an hourly basis for all remaining hours of the current Operating Day and all hours of the next Operating Day.  
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Energy Trades and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE named in an Energy Trade to view confirmed and unconfirmed Energy Trades.  
(4)	The QSE that first reports the Energy Trade to ERCOT is considered to have confirmed the Energy Trade unless it subsequently affirmatively rejects it.  The QSE that first reports an Energy Trade may reject, edit, or delete an Energy Trade that its counterpart has not confirmed.  The counterpart is deemed to have confirmed the Energy Trade when it submits an identical Energy Trade.  After both the buyer and seller have confirmed an Energy Trade, either party may reject it at any time, but the rejection is effective only for any ERCOT process for which the deadline for reporting Energy Trades has not yet passed.
4.4.3	Self-Schedules
(1)	A Self-Schedule is the information that a QSE submits for Real-Time Settlement that specifies the amount of the QSE’s energy supply at a specified source Settlement Point to be used to meet the QSE’s energy obligation at a specified sink Settlement Point.
(2)	A Self-Schedule may be submitted for any Settlement Interval before the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
(3)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify the QSE through the Messaging System of any of its Self-Schedules that are invalid Self-Schedules.  The QSE may correct and resubmit any invalid Self-Schedule within the appropriate market timeline.
4.4.3.1	Self-Schedule Criteria
(1)	Each Self-Schedule must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The name of the QSE;
(b)	The quantity of MW for each 15-minute Settlement Interval of the schedule;
(c)	The first and last 15-minute Settlement Intervals of the schedule;
(d)	The source Settlement Point of the schedule; and
(e)	The sink Settlement Point of the schedule.
4.4.3.2	Self-Schedule Validation
(1)	A validated Self-Schedule is a Self-Schedule that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.3.1, Self-Schedule Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Self-Schedules and continuously display on the MIS Secure Area information that allows the QSE named in a Self-Schedule to view validated Self-Schedules.
4.4.4	DC Tie Schedules
(1)	All schedules between the ERCOT Control Area and a non-ERCOT Control Area(s) over Direct Current Tie(s) (DC Ties(s)), must be implemented under these Protocols, any applicable North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) Practice Standards, and operating agreements between ERCOT and the Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE).  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	All Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules between the ERCOT Control Area and a non-ERCOT Control Area(s) must be implemented in accordance with these Protocols, any applicable North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) Practice Standards, and operating agreements between ERCOT and the appropriate operating authority for the non-ERCOT Control Area.
(2)	A DC Tie Schedule for hours in the Operating Day corresponding to an Electronic Tag (e-Tag) that is reported to ERCOT before 1430 in the Day-Ahead creates a capacity supply for the equivalent Resource or an obligation for the equivalent Load of the DC Tie in the DRUC process.  DC Tie Schedules corresponding to e-Tags approved after 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the Operating Day create a capacity supply or obligation in any applicable HRUC processes.  DC Tie Schedules corresponding to e-Tags approved after the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) snapshot are considered in the Adjustment Period snapshot in accordance with the market timeline.
(3)	A QSE that is an importer into ERCOT through a DC Tie in a Settlement Interval under an approved e-Tag must be treated as a Resource at that DC Tie Settlement Point for that Settlement Interval. 
(4)	A QSE that is an exporter from ERCOT through a DC Tie in a Settlement Interval under an approved e-Tag must be treated as a Load at the DC Tie Settlement Point for that Settlement Interval and is responsible for allocated Transmission Losses, Unaccounted for Energy (UFE), System Administration Fee, and any other applicable ERCOT fees.
(5)	ERCOT shall approve any e-Tag that does not exceed the available physical capacity of the DC Tie and any limits supplied the non-ERCOT Control Area for the time period for which the e-Tag is requested unless a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect for the particular DC Tie for which the e-Tag request is made.  While a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect, ERCOT will deny any additional e-Tag requests that would exacerbate the transmission security violations that led to that DC Tie Curtailment Notice.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, ERCOT shall deny or curtail any e-Tag over any of the DC Ties if necessary to avoid causing any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the Federal Power Act (FPA), including ERCOT, to become such a public utility.  If ERCOT determines that it is necessary to deny or curtail e-Tags in order to prevent any Entity from becoming a “public utility,” it shall provide notice of that determination by posting an operations message to the ERCOT website and issuing a Market Notice.
[NPRR999:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon project implementation of the Intra-Hour Variability (iCAT) Tool:]
(5)	ERCOT shall approve any e-Tag that does not exceed the available physical capacity of the DC Tie, system ramping capability, and any limits supplied by the non-ERCOT Control Area for the time period for which the e-Tag is requested unless a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect for the particular DC Tie for which the e-Tag request is made; otherwise, ERCOT shall deny the e-Tag.  While a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect, ERCOT will deny any additional e-Tag requests that would exacerbate the transmission security violations that led to that DC Tie Curtailment Notice.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, ERCOT shall deny or curtail any e-Tag over any of the DC Ties if necessary to avoid causing any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the Federal Power Act (FPA), including ERCOT, to become such a public utility.  If ERCOT determines that it is necessary to deny or curtail e-Tags in order to prevent any Entity from becoming a “public utility,” it shall provide notice of that determination by posting an operations message to the ERCOT website and issuing a Market Notice.
(6)	ERCOT shall perform schedule confirmation with the applicable non-ERCOT Control Area(s) and shall coordinate the approval process for the e-Tags for the ERCOT Control Area.  An e-Tag for a schedule across a DC Tie is considered approved if:
(a)	All Control Areas and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) with approval rights approve the e-Tag (active approval); or
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(a)	All Control Areas and Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs) with approval rights approve the e-Tag (active approval); or
(b)	No Entity with approval rights over the e-Tag has denied it, and the approval time window has ended (passive approval).
(7)	Using the DC Tie Schedule information corresponding to e-Tags submitted by QSEs, ERCOT shall update and maintain a Current Operating Plan (COP) for each DC Tie for which the aggregated DC Tie Schedules for that tie show a net export out of ERCOT for the applicable interval.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie indicates an export, ERCOT shall treat the DC Tie as an Off-Line Resource and set the High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for that DC Tie Resource to zero.  ERCOT shall monitor the associated Resource Status telemetry during the Operating Period.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie shows a net import, the Resource HSL, High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) and LSL must be set appropriately, considering the resulting net import. 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(7)	Using the DC Tie Schedule information corresponding to e-Tags submitted by QSEs, ERCOT shall update and maintain a Current Operating Plan (COP) for each DC Tie for which the aggregated DC Tie Schedules for that tie show a net export out of ERCOT for the applicable interval.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie indicates an export, ERCOT shall treat the DC Tie as an Off-Line Resource and set the High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for that DC Tie Resource to zero.  ERCOT shall monitor the associated Resource Status telemetry during the Operating Period.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie shows a net import, the Resource HSL and LSL must be set appropriately, considering the resulting net import.
(8)	A QSE exporting from ERCOT and/or importing to ERCOT through a DC Tie shall:
(a)	Secure and maintain an e-Tag service to submit e-Tags and monitor e-Tag status according to NERC requirements;
(b)	Submit e-Tags for all proposed transactions; and
(c)	Implement backup procedures in case of e-Tag service failure.  
(9)	ERCOT shall post a notice to the MIS Certified Area when a confirmed e-Tag is downloaded, cancelled, or curtailed by ERCOT’s systems.
(10)	ERCOT shall use the DC Tie e-Tag MW amounts for Settlement.  The DC Tie operator shall communicate deratings of the DC Ties to ERCOT and other affected regions and all parties shall agree to any adjusted or curtailed e-Tag amounts. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (10) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(10)	ERCOT shall use the DC Tie e-Tag MW amounts for Settlement.  The DCTO shall communicate deratings of the DC Ties to ERCOT and other affected regions and all parties shall agree to any adjusted or curtailed e-Tag amounts. 
(11)	DC Tie Load is considered as Load for daily and hourly reliability studies, and settled as Adjusted Metered Load (AML).  DC Tie Load is curtailed prior to other Load on the ERCOT System as described below, and during Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) events as set forth in Section 6.5.9.4.2, EEA Levels.  
(12)	DC Tie Load shall neither be curtailed by ERCOT during the Adjustment Period, nor for more than one hour at a time, except for the purpose of maintaining reliability, or as indicated in paragraphs (13), (14), (15), and (16) below. 
(13)	If a system operator in a non-ERCOT Control Area requests curtailment of a DC Tie Schedule due to an actual or anticipated emergency in its Control Area, ERCOT may curtail the DC Tie Schedule.  If the DC Tie Schedule is curtailed, ERCOT shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.
(14)	If a DC Tie experiences an Outage, ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules that are, or that are expected to be, affected by the Outage based on system conditions and expected restoration time of the Outage.  ERCOT shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.  Updated DC Tie limits shall be posted as required in paragraph (1) of Section 3.10.7.7, DC Tie Limits.
(15)	If market-based congestion management techniques embedded in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) as specified in these Protocols will not be adequate to resolve one or more transmission security violations that would be fully or partially resolved by the curtailment of DC Tie Load and, in ERCOT’s judgment, no approved Constraint Management Plan (CMP) is adequate to resolve those violations, ERCOT may instruct Resources to change output and, if still necessary, curtail DC Tie Load to maintain reliability and shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.  The quantity of DC Tie Load to be curtailed shall be the minimum required to resolve the constraint(s) after the other remediation actions described above have been taken.
(16)	ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules as necessary to ensure that any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the FPA, including ERCOT, does not become such a public utility.
[NPRR1034:  Insert paragraph (17) below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities; and renumber accordingly:]
(17)	ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules on a DC Tie on a last-in-first-out basis when ERCOT determines that one or more DC Tie Schedules on that DC Tie would exceed a limit established pursuant to paragraph (1) of Section 4.4.4.4, Frequency-Based Limits on DC Tie Imports or Exports.
(17)	Market Participants shall not engage in DC Tie export transactions that are reasonably expected to be uneconomic in consideration of all costs and revenues associated with the transaction, excluding Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) and CRR Balancing Account (CRRBA) allocations.
[NPRR1030:  Delete paragraph (17) above upon system implementation.]
4.4.4.1	DC Tie Schedule Criteria
(1)	Each DC Tie Schedule must correspond to an implemented e-Tag and include the following information: 
(a)	The QSE ERCOT identifier or non-ERCOT Control Area buying the energy;
(b)	The QSE ERCOT identifier or non-ERCOT Control Area selling the energy;
(c)	The DC Tie Settlement Point name;
(d)	The quantity in MW for each 15-minute Settlement Interval of the schedule; 
(e)	The first and last 15-minute Settlement Intervals of the schedule; and
(f)	The e-Tag name.

[NPRR999:  Insert Section 4.4.4.2 below upon project implementation of the Intra-Hour Variability (iCAT) Tool:]
4.4.4.2	Management of DC Tie Schedules due to Ramp Limitations
(1)	If system conditions near or in Real-Time show insufficient ramp capability to meet the sum of all DC Ties’ scheduled ramp, taking into account the full ramping capability of all available Resources and preserving sufficient Physical Responsive Capability (PRC) to avoid EEA Level 1, and ERCOT determines that sufficient time exists, ERCOT may request that one or more e-Tags be resubmitted with an adjusted ramp duration that would conform with the system’s ramp capability.  If ERCOT determines that insufficient time exists to request resubmission of e-Tags, or that an insufficient number of e-Tags have been resubmitted to conform with the system’s ramp capability, ERCOT shall curtail DC Tie Schedules on a last-in-first-out basis as necessary to conform with the system’s ramp capability and shall deny any additional e-Tags that cannot be accommodated within that ramp capability during the impacted intervals.

[NPRR1034:  Insert Section 4.4.4.3 below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
4.4.4.3	Frequency-Based Limits on DC Tie Imports or Exports  
(1)  	ERCOT may establish import or export limits applicable to any DC Tie to mitigate the risk of significant frequency deviation due to the unexpected loss of that DC Tie.  ERCOT shall identify the operating conditions and limits it would expect to use in a posting to the ERCOT website.
4.4.5	[RESERVED] 
4.4.6	PTP Obligation Bids 
(1)	A Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bid is a bid that specifies the source and sink, a range of hours, and a maximum price that the bidder is willing to pay (“Not-to-Exceed Price”). 
(2)	PTP Obligations that are bought in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) must be settled based on the applicable Real-Time Settlement Point Prices.
(3)	A PTP Obligation with Links to an Option is held to be reflective of the Non-Opt-In Entity’s (NOIE’s) PTP Option if the source and sink pairs on both the NOIE’s PTP Obligation and the NOIE’s PTP Option are the same, and the MWs of the NOIE’s PTP Obligations are less than or equal to the number of MWs of the NOIE’s PTP Option.  There shall be no payment for PTP Obligations with Links to an Option acquired in the DAM.
4.4.6.1	PTP Obligation Bid Criteria
(1)	A PTP Obligation bid must be submitted by a QSE and must include the following:
(a)	The name of the QSE submitting the PTP Obligation bid;
(b)	The source Settlement Point and the sink Settlement Point for the PTP Obligation or block of PTP Obligations being bid;
(c)	NOIE peak Load forecast for the Operating Day, if the PTP Obligation bid is a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option;
(d)	The first hour and the last hour for which the PTP Obligation or block of PTP Obligations is being bid;
(e)	The quantity of PTP Obligations in MW for which the Not-to-Exceed Price is effective; and
(f)	A dollars per MW per hour for the Not-to-Exceed Price.
[NPRR918:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(1)	A PTP Obligation bid must be submitted by a QSE and must include the following:
(a)	The name of the QSE submitting the PTP Obligation bid;
(b)	The source Settlement Point and the sink Settlement Point for the PTP Obligation or block of PTP Obligations being bid;
(c)	Hourly NOIE Load forecast for the Operating Day, if the PTP Obligation bid is a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option;
(d)	The first hour and the last hour for which the PTP Obligation or block of PTP Obligations is being bid;
(e)	The quantity of PTP Obligations in MW for which the Not-to-Exceed Price is effective; and
(f)	A dollars per MW per hour for the Not-to-Exceed Price.
(2)	If the PTP Obligation bid is for more than one PTP Obligation (which is one MW for one hour), the block bid must:
(a) 	Include the same number of PTP Obligations in each hour of the block;
(b) 	Be for PTP Obligations that have the same source and sink Settlement Points; and
(c) 	Be for contiguous hours.
(3)	A PTP Obligation bid shall not contain a source Settlement Point and a sink Settlement Point that are Electrically Similar Settlement Points.
(4)	PTP Obligation bids shall not be submitted in combination with PTP Obligation bids or with DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves and DAM Energy Bids to create the net effect of a single PTP Obligation bid containing a source Settlement Point and a sink Settlement Point that are Electrically Similar Settlement Points for the QSE or for any combination of QSEs within the same Counter-Party.
(5)	For each NOIE or QSE representing NOIEs that designated PTP Obligations with Links to an Option, the total of each hourly MW quantity designated to be settled in Real-Time as a PTP Option may not exceed the lesser of: 
(a)	110% of that NOIE’s peak Load forecast for the Operating Day; or
(b)	125% of the NOIE’s hourly Load forecast for the Operating Day. 
[NPRR918:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(5)	For each QSE representing NOIEs that designated PTP Obligations with Links to an Option, the total of each hourly MW quantity designated to be settled in Real-Time as a PTP Option may not exceed the lesser of: 
(a)	110% of that NOIE’s peak Load forecast for the Operating Day; or
(b)	125% of the NOIE’s Load forecast for the Operating Hour.
(6)	PTP Obligations with Links to an Option shall be used for delivery of energy to a NOIE Load or a valid combination of Settlement Points that physically or contractually mitigates risk in supplying the NOIE Load.  This applies to each NOIE or QSE representing NOIEs.
(7)	In addition to the criteria above for other PTP Obligations, PTP Obligations with Links to an Option must further include the following:
(a)	The name of the CRR Account Holder that owns the CRRs being offered; and
(b)	The unique identifier for each CRR being offered.
(8)	For PTP Obligations with Links to an Option, the CRR Account Holder for whom the PTP Obligations with Links to an Option are being submitted must be shown in the ERCOT CRR registration system as the owner of the CRRs being linked to the PTP Obligation.
(9)	The minimum amount for each PTP Obligation with Links to an Option is one-tenth of one MW.  The minimum amount for each PTP Obligation bid is one MW.
4.4.6.2	PTP Obligation Bid Validation
(1)	A validated PTP Obligation bid is a bid that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.6.1, PTP Obligation Bid Criteria, with the exception of paragraphs (3), (4), (5) and (6).  Bids that do not meet the criteria in paragraph (3) of Section 4.4.6.1 will not be awarded in the DAM. 
[NPRR918:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(1)	A validated PTP Obligation bid is a bid that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.6.1, PTP Obligation Bid Criteria, with the exception of paragraphs (3), (4), and (6).  Bids that do not meet the criteria in paragraph (3) of Section 4.4.6.1 will not be awarded in the DAM.
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE submitting a PTP Obligation bid to view its valid PTP Obligation bid. 
(3)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify each QSE through the Messaging System of any of its PTP Obligation bids that are invalid.  The QSE may correct and resubmit any invalid PTP Obligation bid within the appropriate market timeline. 
4.4.6.3	PTP Obligations with Links to an Option DAM Award Eligibility
(1)	A bid for a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option will not be considered eligible for award for an Operating Hour if it sources at a Resource Node where the Generation Resource has a COP Resource Status of:
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	A bid for a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option will not be considered eligible for award for an Operating Hour if it sources at a Resource Node where a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) has a COP Resource Status of:
(a)	OUT for an Operating Hour; or
(b)	OFF for an Operating Hour; and 
(i)	The QSE representing the Resource has not submitted a valid Three-Part Supply Offer or Ancillary Service Offer to be considered by the DAM; and
(ii)	The QSE representing the Resource has not submitted a valid Energy Only Offer at any Resource Node associated with the Resource.
(2)	Where more than one Generation Resource is associated with a Resource Node, ERCOT will consider a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option bid eligible for award unless all Generation Resources associated with the Resource Node do not satisfy the COP Resource Status requirements in paragraph (1) above during the Operating Hour. 
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	Where more than one Generation Resource or ESR is associated with a Resource Node, ERCOT will consider a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option bid eligible for award unless all Generation Resources and ESRs associated with the Resource Node do not satisfy the COP Resource Status requirements in paragraph (1) above during the Operating Hour.
(3)	In order for ERCOT to award a bid for a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option under this section for an upcoming year, by October 1 of the prior year a NOIE must have provided ERCOT with an attestation that the Generation Resource for the Resource Node where the bid is sourced is owned or controlled by the NOIE, or has a contractual commitment for capacity and/or energy with the NOIE.  The attestation must be executed by an officer or executive with authority to bind the NOIE, and submitted to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall rely exclusively on the attestation provided by a NOIE in determining eligibility for bid awards under this section.  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice by September 1 of each year reminding NOIEs of the October 1 deadline for submitting attestations for the upcoming year.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	In order for ERCOT to award a bid for a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option under this section for an upcoming year, by October 1 of the prior year a NOIE must have provided ERCOT with an attestation that the Generation Resource or ESR for the Resource Node where the bid is sourced is owned or controlled by the NOIE, or has a contractual commitment for capacity and/or energy with the NOIE.  The attestation must be executed by an officer or executive with authority to bind the NOIE, and submitted to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall rely exclusively on the attestation provided by a NOIE in determining eligibility for bid awards under this section.  ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice by September 1 of each year reminding NOIEs of the October 1 deadline for submitting attestations for the upcoming year.
4.4.7	Ancillary Service Supplied and Traded
4.4.7.1	Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities
(1)	For each Ancillary Service, a QSE may self-arrange all or a portion of the Ancillary Service Obligation allocated to it by ERCOT.  QSEs may not self-arrange Regulation Service amounts that include Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up) or Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down) quantities.  In addition, a QSE may self-arrange up to 100 MW of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), 100 MW of Responsive Reserve (RRS), 25 MW of Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), 25 MW of Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), and 50 MW of Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) in excess of its corresponding Ancillary Service Obligation, provided that the amount self-arranged from the QSE’s Resources for a given Ancillary Service shall not exceed the amount of the QSE’s Ancillary Services Obligation for that Ancillary Service.  If a QSE elects to self-arrange Ancillary Service capacity, then ERCOT shall not pay the QSE for the Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities for the portion that meets its Ancillary Service Obligation.  Any Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities in excess of a QSE’s Ancillary Service Obligation will be considered to be offered in the DAM or Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM), as applicable, for $0/MWh.
[NPRR1091:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	For each Ancillary Service, a QSE may self-arrange all or a portion of the Ancillary Service Obligation allocated to it by ERCOT.  QSEs may not self-arrange Regulation Service amounts that include Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up) or Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down) quantities.  In addition, a QSE may self-arrange up to 150 MW of Responsive Reserve (RRS), 25 MW of Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), 25 MW of Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), and 300 MW of Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) in excess of its corresponding Ancillary Service Obligation, provided that the amount self-arranged from the QSE’s Resources for a given Ancillary Service shall not exceed the amount of the QSE’s Ancillary Services Obligation for that Ancillary Service.  If a QSE elects to self-arrange Ancillary Service capacity, then ERCOT shall not pay the QSE for the Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities for the portion that meets its Ancillary Service Obligation.  Any Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities in excess of a QSE’s Ancillary Service Obligation will be considered to be offered in the DAM or Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM), as applicable, for $0/MWh.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	For each Ancillary Service, a QSE may self-arrange all or a portion of the advisory Ancillary Service Obligation allocated to it by ERCOT, subject to the QSE’s share of system-wide limits as established by Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities.  If a QSE elects to self-arrange Ancillary Service capacity, then ERCOT shall not pay the QSE for the Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities for the portion that meets its final Ancillary Service Obligation; ERCOT shall pay the QSE the respective Day-Ahead Ancillary Service price for any Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities that exceed a QSE’s final Ancillary Service Obligation.
(2)	The QSE must indicate before 1000 in the Day-Ahead the Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities, by service, so ERCOT can determine how much Ancillary Service capacity, by service, needs to be obtained through the DAM.  
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	The QSE must indicate before 1000 in the Day-Ahead the Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities, by service, so ERCOT can determine how much Ancillary Service capacity, by service, remains to be obtained based on DAM offers and associated Ancillary Service Demand Curves (ASDCs).
(3)	At or after 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may not change its Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities unless ERCOT opens a SASM. 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	At or after 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may not change its Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities.
(4)	Before 1430 in the Day-Ahead, all Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities must be represented by physical capacity, either by Generation Resources or Load Resources, or backed by Ancillary Service Trades. 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	Before 1430 in the Day-Ahead, all Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities must be represented by physical capacity, either by Generation Resources, ESRs, or Load Resources, or backed by Ancillary Service Trades.
(5)	The QSE may self-arrange Reg-Up, Reg-Down, ECRS, RRS, and Non-Spin.
(6)	The QSE may self-arrange Ancillary Services from one or more Resources it represents and/or through an Ancillary Service Trade. 
(7)	The additional Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity specified by the QSE in response to a SASM notice by ERCOT to obtain additional Ancillary Services in the Adjustment Period cannot be more than 100 MW of ECRS, 100 MW of RRS, 25 MW of Reg-Up, 25 MW of Reg-Down, and 50 MW of Non-Spin greater than the additional Ancillary Service amount allocated by ERCOT to that QSE, as stated in the SASM notice, and cannot be changed once committed to ERCOT.
(8)	If a QSE does not self-arrange all of its Ancillary Service Obligation, ERCOT shall procure the remaining amount of that QSE’s Ancillary Service Obligation. 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraphs (7) and (8) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly:]
(7)	A QSE shall not submit Ancillary Services trades that result in the QSE’s purchased quantities of Ancillary Services exceeding the QSE’s Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities. 
(a)	At 1430 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post a report on the MIS Certified Area to notify the QSE if there is an overage in the QSE’s purchased quantities of Ancillary Services in violation of the above limitation.
(b)	If the QSE has such an overage as of the end of the Adjustment Period, that QSE will be charged for any quantity that exceeds their Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities per Section 6.7.5.1, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Payment or Charge.
(9)	For self-arranged RRS, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from:
(a)	Resources providing Primary Frequency Response;
(b)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays; and
(c)	Fast Frequency Response (FFR) Resources.
(10)	For self-arranged ECRS, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from Resources that are manually dispatched and those that are SCED-dispatchable.
[NPRR1213:  Replace paragraph (10) above with the following upon system implementation, and upon system implementation of NPRR1171:]
(10)	For self-arranged ECRS and Non-Spin, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from Resources that are manually dispatched, Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs) and Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs) on circuits subject to Load shed, and Resources that are SCED-dispatchable not on circuits subject to Load shed.
(11)     For self-arranged Non-Spin, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from Resources that are manually dispatched, DGRs and DESRs on circuits subject to Load shed, and Resources that are SCED-dispatchable and not on circuits subject to Load shed.
4.4.7.1.1	Negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities
(1)	A QSE may submit a negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity in the DAM.  ERCOT shall procure all negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities submitted by a QSE.
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	A QSE may submit a negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity in the DAM.  ERCOT shall procure all negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities submitted by a QSE.  Such negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities will be considered by DAM to be equivalent to a bid to buy Ancillary Services at the highest price on each respective ASDC.
(2)	Procurements of negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities by ERCOT shall be settled in the same manner as Ancillary Service Obligations that are not self-arranged and according to the charges defined in Section 4.6.4.2, Charges for Ancillary Services Procurement in the DAM, and Section 6.7, Real-Time Settlement Calculations for the Ancillary Services.
(3)	A QSE may not submit a negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity in the DAM that is less than -500 MW per Ancillary Service.  For negative self-arranged RRS and ECRS, the QSE shall not specify FFR Resources, Controllable Load Resources, and Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.  For compliance purposes, a QSE may not submit a negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity in the DAM that is greater in magnitude than the absolute value of the net sales of its Ancillary Service Trades per Ancillary Service.
[NPRR1213:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation, and upon system implementation of NPRR1171:]
(3)	A QSE may not submit a negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity in the DAM that is less than -500 MW per Ancillary Service.  For negative self-arranged RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin, the QSE shall not specify FFR Resources, Controllable Load Resources, Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays, and DGRs and DESRs on circuits subject to Load shed.  For compliance purposes, a QSE may not submit a negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity in the DAM that is greater in magnitude than the absolute value of the net sales of its Ancillary Service Trades per Ancillary Service.
4.4.7.2	Ancillary Service Offers
(1)	By 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may submit Generation Resource-specific Ancillary Service Offers to ERCOT for the DAM and may offer the same Generation Resource capacity for any or all of the Ancillary Service products simultaneously with any Energy Offer Curves from that Generation Resource in the DAM.  A QSE may also submit Ancillary Service Offers in a SASM.  Offers of more than one Ancillary Service product from one Generation Resource may be inclusive or exclusive of each other and of any Energy Offer Curves, as specified according to a procedure developed by ERCOT. 
[NPRR1008, NPRR1014, and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1188:]
(1)	By 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may submit Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers from Generation Resources, Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), and ESRs to ERCOT for the DAM and may offer the same Generation Resource, CLR, or ESR capacity for any or all of the Ancillary Service products simultaneously with any Energy Offer Curves from that Generation Resource, Energy Bid Curves from that CLR, or Energy Bid/Offer Curves from that ESR in the DAM.  Offers of more than one Ancillary Service product from one Generation Resource may be inclusive or exclusive of each other and of any Energy Offer Curves, as specified according to a procedure developed by ERCOT.  Offers of more than one Ancillary Service product from one CLR may be inclusive or exclusive of each other but considered inclusive of any Energy Bid Curve, as specified according to a procedure developed by ERCOT.  Offers of more than one Ancillary Service product from one ESR may be inclusive or exclusive of each other, as specified according to a procedure developed by ERCOT.
(2)	By 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may submit Load Resource-specific Ancillary Service Offers for Regulation Service, Non-Spin, RRS, and ECRS to ERCOT and may offer the same Load Resource capacity for any or all of those Ancillary Service products simultaneously.  Offers of more than one Ancillary Service product from one Load Resource may be inclusive or exclusive of each other, as specified according to a procedure developed by ERCOT.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1014; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008:]
(2)	By 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may submit Load Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers for Regulation Service, Non-Spin, RRS, and ECRS to ERCOT and may offer the same Load Resource capacity for any or all of those Ancillary Service products simultaneously.  Offers of more than one Ancillary Service product from one Load Resource may be inclusive or exclusive of each other, as specified according to a procedure developed by ERCOT.
(3)	By 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may submit Resource-specific Ancillary Service Offers to ERCOT for FFR Resources, and may offer the same capacity for any or all of the Ancillary Service products simultaneously with any Energy Offer Curves from that Resource in the DAM.  A QSE may also submit Ancillary Service Offers in a SASM.  Offers of more than one Ancillary Service product may be inclusive or exclusive of each other and of any Energy Offer Curves, as specified according to a procedure developed by ERCOT.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(3)	By 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may submit Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers to ERCOT for FFR Resources, and may offer the same capacity for any or all of the Ancillary Service products simultaneously with any Energy Offer Curves from that Resource in the DAM.  Offers of more than one Ancillary Service product may be inclusive or exclusive of each other and of any Energy Offer Curves, as specified according to a procedure developed by ERCOT.

[NPRR1008, NPRR1014, and NPRR1245:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (4) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008 and NPRR1245; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly:]
(4)	By 1000 in the Day-Ahead, a QSE may submit an Ancillary Service Only Offer to ERCOT for the DAM.  An individual Ancillary Service Only Offer must be exclusive to a single Ancillary Service product.  For purposes of Ancillary Service sub-category limitations and validations, an Ancillary Service Only Offer for RRS will be treated as if it was an offer for RRS from an On-Line Generation Resource.  Likewise, an Ancillary Service Only Offer for ECRS or Non-Spin will be treated as if it was an offer for ECRS or Non-Spin from an On-Line Generation Resource.
(4)	Ancillary Service Offers remain active for the offered period until:  
(a)	Selected by ERCOT; 
(b)	Automatically inactivated by the software at the offer expiration time specified by the QSE when the offer is submitted; or
(c)	Withdrawn by the QSE, but a withdrawal is not effective if the deadline for submitting offers has already passed.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(4)	Ancillary Service Offers remain active for the offered period unless the offer is:  
(a)	Effective after DAM and is higher than the Real-Time System-Wide Offer Cap (RTSWCAP); 
(b)	Automatically inactivated by the software at the offer expiration time specified by the QSE when the offer is submitted; or
(c)	Withdrawn by the QSE, but a withdrawal is not effective if the deadline for submitting offers has already passed.
(5)	A Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource may specify whether its Ancillary Service Offer for RRS or Non-Spin may only be procured by ERCOT as a block.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(5)	A Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource may specify whether its Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer for RRS or Non-Spin may only be procured by ERCOT as a block.
(6)	A Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource may specify whether its Ancillary Service Offer for ECRS may only be procured by ERCOT as a block.
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	A Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource may specify whether its Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer for ECRS may only be procured by ERCOT as a block.
(7)	A QSE that submits an On-Line Ancillary Service Offer without also submitting a Three-Part Supply Offer for the DAM for any given hour will be considered by the DAM to be self-committed for that hour, as long as an Ancillary Service Offer for Off-Line Non-Spin was not also submitted for that hour.  When the DAM considers a self-committed offer for clearing, the Resource constraints identified in paragraph (4)(c)(ii) of Section 4.5.1, DAM Clearing Process, other than HSL, are ignored.  A Combined Cycle Generation Resource will be considered by the DAM to be self-committed based on an On-Line Ancillary Service Offer submittal if: 
(a)	Its QSE submits an On-Line Ancillary Service Offer without also submitting a Three-Part Supply Offer for the DAM for any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train for that hour;
(b)	No Ancillary Service Offer for Off-Line Non-Spin for any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train is submitted for that hour; and
(c)	No On-Line Ancillary Service Offer for any other Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycled Train is submitted for that hour. 
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(7) 	A QSE that submits an On-Line Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer without also submitting a Three-Part Supply Offer for the DAM for any given hour will be considered by the DAM to be self-committed for that hour, as long as a Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer for Off-Line Non-Spin was not also submitted for that hour.  A QSE that submits an On-Line ESR-specific Ancillary Service Offer or Energy Bid/Offer Curve for the DAM will be considered to be On-Line.  A QSE may not submit an Off-Line Ancillary Service Offer for an ESR.  When the DAM considers a self-committed offer for clearing, the Resource constraints identified in paragraph (4)(c)(ii) of Section 4.5.1, DAM Clearing Process, other than HSL, are ignored; however, for an ESR, the DAM will consider LSL and HSL.  A Combined Cycle Generation Resource will be considered by the DAM to be self-committed based on an On-Line Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer submittal if: 
(a)	Its QSE submits an On-Line Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer without also submitting a Three-Part Supply Offer for the DAM for any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train for that hour;
(b)	No Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer for Off-Line Non-Spin for any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train is submitted for that hour; and
(c)	No On-Line Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer for any other Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycled Train is submitted for that hour. 
(8)	ERCOT will attempt to procure the quantity from its Ancillary Service Plan from Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers as well as Ancillary Service Only Offers against respective ASDCs.
4.4.7.2.1	Ancillary Service Offer Criteria
(1)	Each Ancillary Service Offer must be submitted by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The selling QSE;
(b)	The Resource represented by the QSE from which the offer would be supplied;
(c)	The quantity in MW and Ancillary Service type from that Resource for this specific offer and the specific quantity in MW and Ancillary Service type of any other Ancillary Service offered from this same capacity; 
(d)	An Ancillary Service Offer linked to a Three-Part Supply Offer from a Resource designated to be Off-Line for the offer period in its COP may only be struck if the Three-Part Supply Offer is struck.  The total capacity struck must be within limits as defined in item (4)(c)(iii) of Section 4.5.1, DAM Clearing Process;  
(e)	An Ancillary Service Offer linked to other Ancillary Service Offers or an Energy Offer Curve from a Resource designated to be On-Line for the offer period in its COP may only be struck if the total capacity struck is within limits as defined in item (4)(c)(iii) of Section 4.5.1;
(f)	The first and last hour of the offer; 
(g)	A fixed quantity block, or variable quantity block indicator for the offer:
(i)	If a fixed quantity block, not to exceed 150 MW, which may only be offered by a Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource and that is offering to provide RRS, ECRS, or Non-Spin, and which may clear at a Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC) below the Ancillary Service Offer price for that block, the single price (in $/MW) and single quantity (in MW) for all hours offered in that block; or
(ii)	If a variable quantity block, which may be offered by a Generation Resource or a Load Resource, the single price (in $/MW) and single “up to” quantity (in MW) contingent on the purchase of all hours offered in that block; and
(h)	The expiration time and date of the offer.
(2)	A valid Ancillary Service Offer in the DAM must be received before 1000 for the effective DAM.  A valid Ancillary Service Offer in an SASM must be received before the applicable deadline for that SASM.
(3)	No Ancillary Service Offer price may exceed the System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP) (in $/MW).  No Ancillary Service Offer price may be less than $0 per MW.
(4)	The minimum amount per Resource for each Ancillary Service product that may be offered is one-tenth (0.1) MW.
(5)	A Resource may offer more than one Ancillary Service.  
(6)	A Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource, may simultaneously offer RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin in a DAM or SASM and be awarded RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin for the same Operating Hour but will not be allowed to provide RRS and Non-Spin or ECRS and Non-Spin on the same Load Resource simultaneously in Real-Time.
(7)	Offers for Load Resources may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements.
(8)	A Load Resource that is qualified to perform as a Controllable Load Resource may not offer to provide Ancillary Services as a Controllable Load Resource and a Load Resource controlled by high-set under-frequency relay simultaneously behind a common breaker. 
[NPRR1008, NPRR1014, NPRR1128, and NPRR1245:  Replace applicable portions of Section 4.4.7.2.1 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1014 and NPRR1128; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008 and NPRR1245:]
4.4.7.2.1	Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer Criteria
(1)	Each Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer must be submitted by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The selling QSE;
(b)	The Resource represented by the QSE from which the offer would be supplied;
(c)	The quantity in MW and Ancillary Service type from that Resource for this specific offer and the specific quantity in MW and Ancillary Service type of any other Ancillary Service offered from this same capacity; 
(d)	A Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer linked to a Three-Part Supply Offer from a Resource designated to be Off-Line for the offer period in its COP may only be struck if the Three-Part Supply Offer is struck.  The total capacity struck must be within limits as defined in item (4)(c)(iii) of Section 4.5.1, DAM Clearing Process;  
(e)	A Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer linked to other Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers or an Energy Offer Curve or Energy Bid/Offer Curve from a Resource designated to be On-Line for the offer period in its COP may only be struck if the total capacity struck is within limits as defined in item (4)(c)(iii) of Section 4.5.1;
(f)	The first and last hour of the offer; 
(g)	A fixed quantity block or variable quantity block indicator for the offer:
(i)	If a fixed quantity block, not to exceed 150 MW, which may only be offered by a Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource and that is offering to provide RRS, ECRS, or Non-Spin, and which may clear at a Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC) below the Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer price for that block, the single price (in $/MW) and single quantity (in MW) for all hours offered in that block.  This fixed quantity block indicator will only be considered in the DAM and will be ignored for awarding of Ancillary Services in the Real-Time Market (RTM); or 
(ii)	If a variable quantity block, which may be offered by a Generation Resource, an ESR, or a Load Resource, the single price (in $/MW) and single “up to” quantity (in MW) contingent on the purchase of all hours offered in that block.  This variable quantity block indicator will only be considered in the DAM and will be ignored for awarding of Ancillary Services in the RTM; and
(h)	The expiration time and date of the offer.
(2)	A valid Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer in the DAM must be received before 1000 for the effective DAM.  
(3)	No Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer received before 1000 in the Day-Ahead may contain a price exceeding the Day-Ahead System-Wide Offer Cap (DASWCAP) (in $/MW).  No Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer received after 1430 in the Day-Ahead may contain a price exceeding the Real-Time System-Wide Offer Cap (RTSWCAP) (in $/MW).  After 1430 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall cancel any Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer containing a price exceeding the RTSWCAP and notify the QSE of the expiration via an electronic message.  During the Operating Hours in which prioritizing the procurement of FFR up to the maximum FFR amount is in effect, an FFR Ancillary Service Offer price may not be less than -$0.01 per MW.  FFR Ancillary Service Offer prices at all other times and any other Ancillary Service Offer prices may not be less than $0 per MW.
(4)	The minimum amount per Resource for each Ancillary Service product that may be offered is one-tenth (0.1) MW.
(5)	A Resource may offer more than one Ancillary Service.  
(6)	A Load Resource, that is not a Controllable Load Resource, may simultaneously offer RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin in a DAM and be awarded RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin for the same Operating Hour in the DAM, but will not be awarded Non-Spin and RRS or Non-Spin and ECRS on the same Load Resource simultaneously in Real-Time.
(7)	Offers for Load Resources may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements.
(8)	A Load Resource that is qualified to perform as a Controllable Load Resource may not offer to provide Ancillary Services as a Controllable Load Resource and a Load Resource controlled by high-set under-frequency relay simultaneously behind a common breaker.
4.4.7.2.2	Ancillary Service Offer Validation
(1)	A valid Ancillary Service Offer is one that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.7.2.1, Ancillary Service Offer Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Ancillary Service Offers and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE named in an Ancillary Service Offer to view its confirmed Ancillary Service Offers.  
(3)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE submitting an Ancillary Service Offer if the offer was rejected or was considered invalid for any reason.  The QSE may then resubmit the offer within the appropriate market timeline.
[NPRR1008:  Replace Section 4.4.7.2.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
4.4.7.2.2	Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer Validation
(1)	A valid Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer is one that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.7.2.1, Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE named in a Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer to view its confirmed Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers.  
(3)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE submitting a Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer if the offer was rejected or was considered invalid for any reason.  The QSE may then resubmit the offer within the appropriate market timeline.

[NPRR1008 and NPRR1128:  Insert applicable portions of Section 4.4.7.2.3 below upon system implementation for NPRR1128; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008:]
4.4.7.2.3	Ancillary Service Only Offer Criteria
(1)	Each Ancillary Service Only Offer must be submitted by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The selling QSE;
(b)	The quantity in MW and Ancillary Service type; 
(c)	The first and last Operating Hour of the offer; 
(2)	A valid Ancillary Service Only Offer in the DAM must be received before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.  
(3)	No Ancillary Service Only Offer price may exceed the DASWCAP (in $/MW).  During the Operating Hours in which prioritizing the procurement of FFR up to the maximum FFR amount is in effect, an FFR Ancillary Service Offer price may not be less than -$0.01 per MW.  FFR Ancillary Service Offer price at all other times and any other Ancillary Service Only Offer prices may not be less than $0 per MW.
(4)	The minimum amount that may be offered is one-tenth (0.1) MW.

[NPRR1008:  Insert Section 4.4.7.2.4 below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
4.4.7.2.4	Ancillary Service Only Offer Validation
(1)	A valid Ancillary Service Only Offer is one that ERCOT determines meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.7.2.3, Ancillary Service Only Offer Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Ancillary Service Only Offers and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE named in an Ancillary Service Only Offer to view its confirmed Ancillary Service Only Offers.  
(3)	ERCOT will notify the QSE submitting an Ancillary Service Only Offer using the MIS Certified Area if the offer was rejected or was considered invalid for any reason.  The QSE may resubmit the offer if the time for receiving offers has not elapsed.
4.4.7.3	Ancillary Service Trades
(1)	An Ancillary Service Trade is the information for a QSE-to-QSE transaction that transfers an obligation to provide Ancillary Service capacity between a buyer and a seller. 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	An Ancillary Service Trade is the information for a QSE-to-QSE transaction that transfers an obligation to provide Ancillary Service capacity or purchase Ancillary Services in the Real-Time Market (RTM) between a buyer and a seller.
(2)	An Ancillary Service Trade that is reported to ERCOT by 1430 in the Day-Ahead changes the Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility of the buyer and seller in the DRUC process.  An Ancillary Service Trade that is reported to ERCOT after 1430 in the Day-Ahead changes the Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility of the buyer and seller in any applicable HRUC process, the deadline for which is after the trade is submitted. 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	An Ancillary Service Trade that is reported to ERCOT by 1430 in the Day-Ahead changes the Ancillary Service Position of the buyer and seller in the DRUC process.  An Ancillary Service Trade that is reported to ERCOT after 1430 in the Day-Ahead changes the Ancillary Service Position of the buyer and seller in any applicable HRUC process, the deadline for which is after the trade is submitted.
(3)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify each QSE through the Messaging System of any of its Ancillary Service Trades that are invalid Ancillary Service Trades.  The QSE may correct and resubmit any invalid Ancillary Service Trade, but the reporting time of the trade is determined by when the validated Ancillary Service Trade was submitted and not when the original invalid Ancillary Service Trade was submitted. 
(4)	A QSE with an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility for ECRS, originally designated to be provided by a Generation Resource, may transfer its responsibility via Ancillary Service Trade(s) to another QSE only if that QSE designates the ECRS will be provided by a Generation Resource.  
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	A QSE with an Ancillary Service Position for ECRS, originally designated to be provided by a SCED-dispatchable Resource, may transfer that portion of its Ancillary Service Position via Ancillary Service Trade(s) to another QSE only if that QSE designates the ECRS will be provided by a SCED-dispatchable Resource.

[NPRR1213:  Delete paragraph (4) above upon system implementation, and upon system implementation of NPRR1171, and renumber accordingly.]
(5)	A QSE with an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility for ECRS, originally designated to be provided by a Load Resource providing ECRS triggered with or without under-frequency relays set at 59.70 Hz, may transfer its responsibility via Ancillary Service Trade(s) to another QSE only if that QSE designates the ECRS will be provided by either: 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(5)	A QSE with an Ancillary Service Position for ECRS, originally designated to be provided by a Load Resource providing ECRS triggered with or without under-frequency relays set at 59.70 Hz, may transfer that portion of its Ancillary Service Position via Ancillary Service Trade(s) to another QSE only if that QSE designates the ECRS will be provided by either:
(a)	A Generation Resource; or 
[NPRR1246:  Insert item (b) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly:]
(b)	An ESR; or
(b)	A Load Resource providing ECRS triggered with or without under-frequency relays set at 59.70 Hz.  
[NPRR1213:  Delete paragraph (5) above upon system implementation, and upon system implementation of NPRR1171, and renumber accordingly.]
(6)	The table below shows the ECRS trades that are allowed for each type of original responsibility:
	Allowable ECRS Ancillary Service Trades
Original Responsibility	SCED-dispatchable ECRS	Manually dispatched ECRS
SCED-dispatchable ECRS	Yes	No
Manually dispatched ECRS	Yes	Yes

[NPRR1213:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation, and upon system implementation of NPRR1171:]
(4)	The table below shows the ECRS trades that are allowed for each type of original responsibility:
			
	Allowable ECRS Ancillary Service Trades
Original Responsibility	SCED-dispatchable ECRS not from DGRs and DESRs on a Load shed circuit	SCED-dispatchable ECRS from DGRs and DESRs on a Load shed circuit	Manually dispatched ECRS
SCED-dispatchable ECRS not from DGRs and DESRs on a Load shed circuit	Yes	No	No
SCED-dispatchable ECRS from DGRs and DESRs on a Load shed circuit	Yes	Yes	No
Manually dispatched ECRS	Yes	No	Yes

(7)	The table below shows the RRS trades that are allowed for each type of original responsibility:
	Allowable RRS Ancillary Service Trades
Original Responsibility	Resource providing Primary Frequency Response	Resource providing FFR triggered at 59.85 Hz	Load Resource triggered at 59.7 Hz
Resource providing Primary Frequency Response	Yes	No	No
Resource providing FFR triggered at 59.85 Hz	Yes	Yes	Yes
Load Resource triggered at 59.7 Hz	Yes	No	Yes
(8)       The table below shows the Non-Spin trades that are allowed for each type of original responsibility:
	Allowable Non-Spin Ancillary Service Trades
Original Responsibility	Generation Resource or Controllable Load Resource	Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource
Generation Resource or Controllable Load Resource	Yes	No
Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource	Yes	Yes

[NPRR1213:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation, and upon system implementation of NPRR1171:]
(6)       The table below shows the Non-Spin trades that are allowed for each type of original responsibility:
			
	Allowable Non-Spin Ancillary Service Trades
Original Responsibility	Generation Resource not DGRs and DESRs on a Load shed circuit or Controllable Load Resource	DGRs and DESRs on a  Load shed circuit	Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource
Generation Resource not on circuits subject to Load shed or Controllable Load Resource	Yes	No	No
DGRs and DESRs on a Load shed circuit	Yes	Yes	No
Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource	Yes	No	Yes

(9)	A QSE with an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility for Regulation Service may transfer that portion of its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility via Ancillary Service Trade(s) to another QSE only if that QSE provides the transferred portion with Regulation Service that is not Fast Responding Regulation Service (FRRS).  The table below shows the Regulation Service trades that are allowed for each type of original responsibility.  The same limitations apply separately to both Reg-Up and Reg-Down:
	Allowable Regulation Ancillary Service Trades
Original Responsibility	Regulation Service that is not FRRS	FRRS
Regulation Service that is not FRRS	Yes	No
FRRS	Yes	No
4.4.7.3.1	Ancillary Service Trade Criteria
(1)	Each Ancillary Service Trade must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information: 
(a)	The buying QSE;
(b)	The selling QSE;
(c)	The type of Ancillary Service;
(d)	The quantity in MW; and
(e)	The first and last hours of the trade.
(f)	For RRS, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from:
(i)	Resources providing Primary Frequency Response;
(ii)	FFR Resources; and
(iii)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (f) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(f)	For RRS, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from:
(i)	Resources capable of providing Primary Frequency Response;
(ii)	ESRs and Load Resources providing FFR; and
(iii)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays.
(2)	For ECRS, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from Resources that are manually dispatched and those that are SCED-dispatchable.
[NPRR1213:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation, and upon system implementation of NPRR1171, and renumber accordingly:]
(2)	For ECRS, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from:
(a)	Manually dispatched Resources; 
(b)	SCED-dispatchable Resources that are not DGRs and DESRs on circuits subject to Load shed; and
(c)	DGRs and DESRs on circuits subject to Load shed.
(3)	For Non-Spin, the QSE shall indicate the quantity of the service that is provided from:
(a)	Load Resources that are not Controllable Load Resources; 
(b)	Generation Resources that are not DGRs or DESRs on circuits subject to Load shed and Controllable Load Resources; and
(c)	DGRs and DESRs on circuits subject to Load shed.
(3)	An Ancillary Service Trade must be confirmed by both the buying QSE and selling QSE to be considered valid and to be used in an ERCOT process.
4.4.7.3.2	Ancillary Service Trade Validation
(1)	A valid Ancillary Service Trade is an Ancillary Service Trade that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.7.3.1, Ancillary Service Trade Criteria.  Only one confirmed Ancillary Service Trade is allowed for the same buying and selling QSEs for each type of Ancillary Service for each hour.
(2)	When an Ancillary Service Trade is reported to ERCOT, ERCOT shall notify both the buying and selling QSEs by using the Messaging System if available and the MIS Certified Area.  
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Ancillary Service Trades and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE named in an Ancillary Service Trade to view its confirmed and unconfirmed Ancillary Service Trades.  ERCOT shall also post to the MIS Certified Area any unconfirmed Ancillary Service Trades for QSEs on an hourly basis for all remaining hours of the current Operating Day and all hours of the next Operating Day. 
(4)	The QSE that first reports the Ancillary Service Trade to ERCOT is deemed to have confirmed the Ancillary Service Trade unless it subsequently affirmatively rejects it.  The QSE that first reports an Ancillary Service Trade may reject, edit, or delete an Ancillary Service Trade that its counterpart has not confirmed.  The counterpart is deemed to have confirmed the Ancillary Service Trade when it submits an identical Ancillary Service Trade.  After both the buyer and seller have confirmed an Ancillary Service Trade, either party may reject it at any time, but the rejection is effective only for any ERCOT process for which the deadline for reporting Ancillary Service Trades has not yet passed.  
4.4.7.4	Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility
(1)	A QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility is the net amount of Ancillary Service capacity that the QSE is obligated to deliver to ERCOT, by hour and service type.  The Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility is the difference in MW, by hour and service type, between the amounts specified in items (a) and (b) defined as follows:
(a)	The sum of:
(i)	The QSE’s Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity; plus
(ii)	The total (in MW) of Ancillary Service Trades for which the QSE is the seller; plus
(iii)	Awards to the QSE of Ancillary Service Offers in the DAM; plus
(iv)	Awards to the QSE of Ancillary Service Offers in the SASM; plus
(v)	RUC-committed Ancillary Service quantities to the QSE from its Resources committed by the RUC process to provide Ancillary Service; and 
(b)	The sum of:
(i)	The total Ancillary Service Trades for which the QSE is the buyer; plus
(ii)	The total Ancillary Service capacity identified as the QSE’s failure to provide as described in Section 6.4.9.1.3, Failure to Provide Ancillary Service; plus
(iii)	The total Ancillary Service capacity identified as the QSE’s infeasible Ancillary Service, as described in Section 6.4.9.1.2, Replacement of Infeasible Ancillary Service Due to Transmission Constraints; plus
(iv)	The total Ancillary Service capacity identified as the QSE’s reconfiguration amount as described in Section 6.4.9.2, Supplemental Ancillary Services Market.
(2)	A QSE may only use a RUC-committed Resource during that Resource’s RUC-Committed Interval to meet the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility if the Resource has been committed by the RUC process to provide Ancillary Service.  The QSE shall only provide from the RUC-committed Resource the exact amount and type of Ancillary Service for which it was committed by RUC.
(3)	By 1430 in the Day-Ahead, the QSE must notify ERCOT, in the QSE’s COP, which Resources represented by the QSE will provide the Ancillary Service capacity necessary to meet the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, specified by Resource, hour, and service type.  The DAM Ancillary Service awards are Resource-specific; the QSE must include those DAM awards in its COP, and the QSE may not change that Resource-specific DAM award information until after 1600 under the conditions set out in Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP). 
(4)	Section 6.4.9.1.3 specifies what happens if the QSE fails to provide its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility.
(5)	A QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility must be met by identified Resources that are qualified to provide the Ancillary Service, per Section 8.1.1.2.1, Ancillary Service Technical Requirements and Qualification Criteria and Test Methods, and available to act on Dispatch Instructions.
[NPRR1008:  Delete Section 4.4.7.4 above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
4.4.8	RMR Offers
(1)	ERCOT shall decide, in its sole discretion, to commit a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit using the DRUC or HRUC process only when it has determined that the RMR Unit is likely to be needed in Real-Time for reliability reasons, taking into consideration whether SCED will solve transmission constraints without the RMR Resource, contractual constraints on the Resource, and any other adverse effects on the RMR Unit that may occur as the result of the dispatch of the RMR Resource.
(a)	If ERCOT has determined that an RMR Unit will be needed in Real-Time to resolve a transmission constraint, then ERCOT shall manually commit the Resource for the capacity required to resolve the transmission constraint using the DRUC or HRUC process. 
(b)	ERCOT may submit Energy Offer Curves at the SWCAP in $/MWh on behalf of RMR Units committed in the DRUC or HRUC, and subsequently available for Dispatch by SCED, unless ERCOT declares a Market Suspension, in which case no Energy Offer Curves will be submitted, and ERCOT may, at its discretion, Dispatch RMR Units to restore the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	ERCOT may submit Energy Offer Curves at the effective Value of Lost Load (VOLL) in $/MWh on behalf of RMR Units committed in the DRUC or HRUC, and subsequently available for Dispatch by SCED, unless ERCOT declares a Market Suspension, in which case no Energy Offer Curves will be submitted, and ERCOT may, at its discretion, Dispatch RMR Units to restore the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
(c)	RMR offers shall be treated as if they were Resource offers for purposes of posting under Section 3.2.5, Publication of Resource and Load Information.
4.4.9	Energy Offers and Bids
4.4.9.1	Three-Part Supply Offers
(1)	A Three-Part Supply Offer consists of a Startup Offer, a Minimum-Energy Offer, and an Energy Offer Curve.  ERCOT must validate each Startup Offer, Minimum-Energy Offer, and Energy Offer Curve before it can be used in any ERCOT process.
(2)	The DAM uses all three parts of the Three-Part Supply Offer and also uses Energy Offer Curves submitted without a Startup Offer and without a Minimum-Energy Offer.  The RUC only uses the Startup Offer and the Minimum-Energy Offer components for determining RUC commitments, but the Energy Offer Curve may be used in Settlement to claw back some or all of a RUC-committed Resource’s energy payments.  The Energy Offer Curve may also be used by SCED in Real-Time Operations. 
(3)	A QSE may submit an Energy Offer Curve without also submitting a Startup Offer and a Minimum-Energy Offer for the DAM and during the Adjustment Period, but only Three-Part Supply Offers are used in the RUC process.  A QSE that submits an Energy Offer Curve without also submitting a Startup Offer and a Minimum-Energy Offer is considered not to be offering the Resource into the RUC, but that does not prevent the Resource from being committed in the RUC process like any other Resource that does not submit an offer in the RUC.
(a)	A QSE that submits an Energy Offer Curve without a Startup Offer and a Minimum-Energy Offer for the DAM for any given hour will be considered by the DAM to be self-committed for that hour, as long as an Ancillary Service Offer for Off-Line Non-Spin Service was not also submitted for that hour.
(b)	A Combined Cycle Generation Resource will be considered by the DAM to be self-committed if:
(i)	Its QSE submits an Energy Offer Curve without a Startup Offer and a Minimum-Energy Offer for the DAM for that Combined Cycle Generation Resource and no other Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train; and
(ii)	Its QSE submits no Ancillary Service Offer for Off-Line Non-Spin for any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
(c)	When the DAM considers a self-committed offer for clearing, the Resource constraints identified in paragraph (4)(c)(ii) of Section 4.5.1, DAM Clearing Process, other than HSL, are ignored.
(4)	For any hours in which the Resource is not RUC-committed, ERCOT shall consider all Three-Part Supply Offers in the RUC process until: 
(a) 	The QSE withdraws the offer; or 
(b) 	The offer expires by its terms. 
4.4.9.2	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer 
(1)	The Startup Offer component represents all costs incurred by a Generation Resource in starting up and reaching its LSL.  The Minimum-Energy Offer component represents a proxy for the costs incurred by a Resource in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL.  
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	The Startup Offer component represents all costs incurred by a Generation Resource in starting up and reaching its LSL.  The Minimum-Energy Offer component represents a proxy for the costs incurred by a Resource in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL.   Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offers are not applicable to ESRs.
4.4.9.2.1	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Criteria 
(1)	Each Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The selling QSE;
(b)	The Resource represented by the QSE from which the offer would be supplied;
(c)	The Resource’s hot, intermediate, and cold Startup Offer in dollars; 
(d)	The Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer in dollars per MWh; 
(e)	The first and last hour of the Startup and Minimum-Energy Offers
(f)	The expiration time and date of the offer; 
(g)	Percentage of the Fuel Index Price (FIP) to the extent that the startup and minimum energy will be supplied by gas to determine the offer cap; and
(h)	Percentage of the Fuel Oil Price (FOP) to the extent that the startup and minimum energy will be supplied by oil to determine the offer cap.
(2)	Valid Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offers (which must be part of a Three-Part Supply Offer) must be received before 1000 for the effective DAM and DRUC. 
(3)	A QSE may update and submit a Startup Offer and/or Minimum-Energy Offer for a Resource during the Adjustment Period for any hours in which the Resource is not DAM- or RUC-committed before the offer is updated or submitted.  
(4)	The Resource’s Startup Offer must not be greater than 200% of the Resource Category Generic Startup Cost for that type of Resource listed in Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, unless ERCOT has approved verifiable Resource-specific startup costs for that Resource, under Section 4.4.9.2.4, Verifiable Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Caps, in which case the Resource’s Startup Offer must not be greater than 200% of those approved verifiable Resource-specific Startup Costs.
(5)	The Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer must not be greater than 200% of the Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost for that type of Resource listed in Section 4.4.9.2.3 unless ERCOT has approved verifiable Resource-specific minimum-energy costs for that Resource, under Section 4.4.9.2.4 in which case the Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer must not be greater than 200% of those approved verifiable Resource-specific minimum-energy costs.
(6)	Prior to 1000 for the effective DAM, a QSE may submit and update a Three-Part Supply Offer for a Resource for any hours which were Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC)-instructed.
4.4.9.2.2	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Validation 
(1)	A valid Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer is an offer that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.9.2.1, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Criteria, and that are part of a Three-Part Supply Offer for which the Energy Offer Curve has also been validated. 
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE submitting a Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer to view its valid Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offers. 
(3)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE submitting a Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer (which must be part of a Three-Part Supply Offer) if the offer was rejected or was considered invalid for any reason.  The QSE may then resubmit the offer within the appropriate market timeline. 
(4)	Where a Split Generation Resource has submitted a Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer, ERCOT shall validate the offers in accordance with Section 3.8, Special Considerations.
4.4.9.2.3	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps 
(1)	The Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap, by applicable Resource category, is determined by the following Operations and Maintenance (O&M) costs by Resource category: 
Resource Category	O&M Costs ($)
Nuclear, coal, lignite and hydro	7,200
Combined Cycle Generation Resource with a combustion turbine ≥ 90 MW, as determined by the largest combustion turbine in the Combined Cycle Generation Resource and for each combustion turbine in the Combined Cycle Generation Resource	6,810 
Combined Cycle Generation Resource with a combustion turbine < 90 MW, as determined by the largest combustion turbine in the Combined Cycle Generation Resource and for each combustion turbine in the Combined Cycle Generation Resource	6,810
Gas steam supercritical boiler	4,800
Gas steam reheat boiler 	3,000
Gas steam non-reheat or boiler w/o air-preheater 	2,310
Simple cycle greater than 90 MW 	5,000
Simple cycle less than or equal to 90 MW	2,300
Reciprocating Engines	$58 /MW * the average of the seasonal net max sustainable ratings
RMR Resource	Not Applicable
Wind generation Resources	0
PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs)	0
Any Resources not defined above	0
 
(2)	The Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap is the cost per MWh of energy for a Resource to produce energy at the Resource’s LSL and is as follows:  
(a)	Hydro = $10.00/MWh;
(b)	Coal and lignite = $18.00/MWh;
(c)	Combined-cycle greater than 90 MW = 8 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in Minimum-Energy Offer;
(d)	Combined-cycle less than or equal to 90 MW = 9 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in Minimum-Energy Offer;
(e)	Gas steam supercritical boiler = 14 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in Minimum-Energy Offer;
(f)	Gas steam reheat boiler = 14.5 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in Minimum-Energy Offer;
(g)	Gas steam non-reheat or boiler without air-preheater = 16.0 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in Minimum-Energy Offer;
(h)	Simple-cycle greater than 90 MW = 15.0 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in Minimum-Energy Offer;
(i)	Simple-cycle less than or equal to 90 MW = 14.0 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in Minimum-Energy Offer;
(j)	Reciprocating engines = 16.0 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Minimum-Energy Offer;
(k)	RMR Resource = RMR contract estimated fuel cost using its contract I/O curve at its LSL times FIP; 
(l)	Nuclear = Not Applicable; 
(m)	Wind generation Resources = $0;
(n)	PVGRs = $0; and
(o)	Other Resources not defined above = $0.
(3)	The FIP and FOP used to calculate the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap shall be the FIP or FOP for the Operating Day.  In the event the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap must be calculated before the FIP or FOP is available for the particular Operating Day, the FIP and FOP for the most recent preceding Operating Day shall be used.  Once the FIP and FOP are available for a particular Operating Day, those values shall be used in the calculations.  If the percentage fuel mix is not specified for Resource categories having the option to specify the fuel mix, then the minimum of FIP or FOP shall be used.
(4)	Items (2)(c) and (2)(d) above are determined by capacity of largest simple-cycle combustion turbine in the train.
4.4.9.2.4	Verifiable Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Caps 
(1)	Once verifiable Resource-specific startup costs and minimum-energy costs are established and approved by ERCOT in accordance with Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, then they are used in place of generic costs as described in Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps.  A QSE may file verifiable unit-specific costs for a Resource at any time, but it is not required to file those costs only because of a DAM commitment. The most recent approved verifiable costs on file must be used going forward.
4.4.9.3	Energy Offer Curve
(1)	The Energy Offer Curve represents the QSE’s willingness to sell energy at or above a certain price and at a certain quantity in the DAM or its willingness to be dispatched by SCED in Real-Time Operations.   
(2)	A QSE may submit Resource-specific Energy Offer Curves to ERCOT.  Such Energy Offer Curves will be bounded in the DAM for each Operating Hour by the LSL and HSL of the Generation Resource specified in the COP, and bounded in SCED by the LSL and HSL of the Generation Resource as shown by telemetry. 
(3)	Energy Offer Curves remain active for the offered period until automatically inactivated by the software at the offer expiration time selected by the QSE.
(4)	For any Operating Hour, the QSE for a Resource may submit or change Energy Offer Curve information at any time prior to SCED execution, except for the percentage of FIP and percentage of FOP, and SCED will use the latest updated Energy Offer Curve available in the system.  The QSE must provide a brief freeform reason at the time of the submission of the Energy Offer Curve if submitted after the end of the Adjustment Period.  For the percentage FIP and percentage of FOP within the Energy Offer Curve, submissions and updates must be received by ERCOT’s systems in the Adjustment Period.  If a new Energy Offer Curve is not deemed to be valid, then the most recent valid Energy Offer Curve available in the system at the time of SCED execution will be used and ERCOT will notify the QSE that the invalid Energy Offer Curve was rejected.  Once an Operating Hour ends, an Energy Offer Curve for that hour cannot be submitted, updated, or canceled.
(5)	A QSE may withdraw an Energy Offer Curve if:
(a)	An Output Schedule is submitted for all intervals for which an Energy Offer Curve is withdrawn; or
(b)	The Resource is forced Off-Line and notifies ERCOT of the Forced Outage by changing the Resource Status appropriately and updating its COP. 
(6)	For any Operating Hour that is a RUC-Committed Interval or a DAM-Committed Interval for a Resource, a QSE for that Resource may not change a Startup Offer or Minimum-Energy Offer.    
(7)	If a valid Energy Offer Curve or an Output Schedule does not exist for a Resource that has a status of On-Line at the end of the Adjustment Period, then ERCOT shall notify the QSE and set the Output Schedule equal to the then current telemetered output of the Resource until an Output Schedule or Energy Offer Curve is submitted in a subsequent Adjustment Period. 
4.4.9.3.1	Energy Offer Curve Criteria
(1)	Each Energy Offer Curve must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The selling QSE;
(b)	The Resource represented by the QSE from which the offer would be supplied;
(c)	A monotonically increasing offer curve for both price (in $/MWh) and quantity (in MW) with no more than ten price/quantity pairs;
(d)	The first and last hour of the Offer; 
(e)	The expiration time and date of the offer; 
(f)	List of Ancillary Service Offers from the same Resource; 
(g)	Inclusive or exclusive designation relative to other DAM offers;
(h)	Percentage of FIP and percentage of FOP for generation above LSL subject to the sum of the percentages not exceeding 100%; and
(i)	Reason for update of the offer, if submitting after the end of the Adjustment Period.
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each Energy Offer Curve must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The selling QSE;
(b)	The Resource represented by the QSE from which the offer would be supplied;
(c)	A monotonically increasing offer curve for both price (in $/MWh) and quantity (in MW) with no more than ten price/quantity pairs;
(d)	The first and last hour of the Offer; 
(e)	The expiration time and date of the offer; 
(f)	Inclusive or exclusive designation relative to other DAM offers (for Real-Time, Energy Offer Curves are always considered to be inclusive with Ancillary Service Offers);
(g)	Percentage of FIP and percentage of FOP for generation above LSL subject to the sum of the percentages not exceeding 100%; and
(h)	Reason for update of the offer, if submitting after the end of the Adjustment Period.
(2)	An Energy Offer Curve must be within the range of -$250.00 per MWh and the SWCAP in dollars per MWh.  The software systems must be able to provide ERCOT with the ability to enter Resource-specific Energy Offer Curve floors and caps.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1245:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	An Energy Offer Curve must be within the range of -$250.00 per MWh and either the DASWCAP or RTSWCAP, depending on the timing of the submission, in dollars per MWh.  No Energy Offer Curve received after 1430 in the Day-Ahead may contain a price exceeding the RTSWCAP.  After 1430 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall cancel any Energy Offer Curve containing a price exceeding the RTSWCAP and notify the QSE of the expiration via an electronic message.
(3)	The minimum amount per Resource for each Energy Offer Curve that may be offered is one MW.
4.4.9.3.2	Energy Offer Curve Validation
(1)	A valid Energy Offer Curve is an offer curve that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.9.3.1, Energy Offer Curve Criteria, and the Energy Offer Curve that is part of a Three-Part Supply Offer for which the Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer has also been validated.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE submitting an Energy Offer Curve by the Messaging System if the offer was rejected or was considered invalid for any reason.  The QSE may then resubmit the offer within the appropriate market timeline.
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Energy Offer Curves and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE to view its valid Energy Offer Curves.  
4.4.9.3.3	Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps
(1)	The following Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps must be used for the purpose of make-whole Settlements, Real-Time High Dispatch Limit Override Energy Payments, and Voltage Support Service Payments:
(a)	Nuclear = $15.00/MWh;
(b)	Coal and Lignite = $18.00/MWh;
(c)	Combined Cycle greater than 90 MW = 9 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Energy Offer Curve;
(d)	Combined Cycle less than or equal to 90 MW = 10 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Energy Offer Curve;
(e)	Gas - Steam Supercritical Boiler = 10.5 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Energy Offer Curve;
(f)	Gas Steam Reheat Boiler = 11.5 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Energy Offer Curve;
(g)	Gas Steam Non-reheat or boiler without air-preheater = 14.5 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Energy Offer Curve;
(h)	Simple Cycle greater than 90 MW = 14 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Energy Offer Curve;
(i)	Simple Cycle less than or equal to 90 MW = 15 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Energy Offer Curve;
(j)	Reciprocating Engines = 16 MMBtu/MWh * ((Percentage of FIP * FIP) + (Percentage of FOP * FOP))/100, as specified in the Energy Offer Curve;
(k)	Hydro = $10.00/MWh;
(l)	Other = SWCAP;
[NPRR1008:  Replace item (l) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(l)	Other = DASWCAP or RTSWCAP;
(m)	RMR Resource = SWCAP;
[NPRR1008:  Replace item (m) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(m)	RMR Resource = effective Value of Lost Load (VOLL);
(n)	Wind Generation Resources = $0.00/MWh; and
(o) 	PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR) = $0.00/MWh.
[NPRR1246:  Insert item (p) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(p)	Energy Storage Resource (ESR) = $0.00/MWh.
(2)	ERCOT shall produce an annual report each April that provides the amount of DAM and RUC Make-Whole Payments during the previous calendar year for Resources categorized as Other, per item (1)(l) above, as a percentage of the total amount of DAM and RUC Make-Whole Payments made during the previous calendar year.  The report shall be based on final Settlements and include the total number of Resources classified as Other.  ERCOT shall present this report annually to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee.  If there are no Make-Whole Payments for Resources categorized as Other for a given calendar year, then ERCOT will not be required to produce the annual report.
(3)	Items in paragraphs (1)(c) and (d) above are determined by capacity of largest simple-cycle combustion turbine in the train selected.
(4)	The FIP and FOP used to calculate the Energy Offer Curve Cap for Make-Whole Payment calculation purposes shall be the FIP or FOP for the Operating Day.  In the event the Energy Offer Curve Cap for Make-Whole Payment calculation purposes must be calculated before the FIP or FOP is available for the particular Operating Day, the FIP and FOP for the most recent preceding Operating Day shall be used.  Once the FIP and FOP are available for a particular Operating Day, those values shall be used in the calculations.  If the percentage fuel mix is not specified or if no Energy Offer Curve exists, then the minimum of FIP or FOP shall be used.
[NPRR1216:  Insert paragraph (5) below upon system implementation:]
(5)	During an Emergency Offer Cap (ECAP) Effective Period, the SWCAP used for purposes of calculating the Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps shall be set to the maximum value of SWCAP that was effective for the Operating Day.

[NPRR1216:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(5)	During an ECAP Effective Period, for purposes of calculating the Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps, the DASWCAP shall be set to the DASWCAP that was used to clear the DAM, and the VOLL shall be set to the maximum value VOLL that was effective for the Operating Day. 
4.4.9.4	Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor
4.4.9.4.1	Mitigated Offer Cap 
(1)	Energy Offer Curves may be subject to mitigation in Real-Time operations under Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, using a Mitigated Offer Cap (MOC).  ERCOT shall construct an incremental MOC curve in accordance with Section 6.5.7.3 such that each point on the MOC curve is calculated as follows: 
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	Energy Offer Curves and Energy Bid/Offer Curves may be subject to mitigation in Real-Time operations under Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, using a Mitigated Offer Cap (MOC).  For Generation Resources, ERCOT shall construct an incremental MOC curve in accordance with Section 6.5.7.3 such that each point on the MOC curve is calculated as follows:
MOC q, r, h = Max [GIHR q, r * Max(FIP, WAFP q, r, h), (IHR q, r * FPRC q, r + OM q, r)]
Where, 
If a QSE has submitted an Energy Offer Curve on behalf of a Generation Resource and the Generation Resource has approved verifiable costs, then 
FPRC q, r = Max(WAFP q, r, h, FIP + FA q, r) * RTPERFIP q, r / 100 + FOP * RTPERFOP q, r / 100
If a QSE has not submitted an Energy Offer Curve on behalf of a Generation Resource and the Generation Resource has approved verifiable costs, then 
FPRC q, r = Max(WAFP q, r, h, FIP + FA q, r) * GASPEROL q, r / 100 + FOP * OILPEROL q, r / 100 + (SFP + FA q, r) * SFPEROL q, r / 100
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
MOC q, r, h	$/MWh	Mitigated Offer Cap per Resource—The MOC for Resource r, for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
GIHR q, r	MMBtu/MWh	Generic Incremental Heat Rate—The generic, single-value, incremental heat rate.  For Generation Resources with a Commercial Operations Date on or before January 1, 2004, the generic incremental heat rate shall be set to 10.5.  For Generation Resources that have a Commercial Operations Date after January 1, 2004, this value shall be set to 14.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
IHR q, r	MMBtu/MWh	Verifiable Incremental Heat Rate per Resource—The verifiable incremental heat rate curve for Resource r, as approved in the verifiable cost process.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
FIP	$/MMBtu	Fuel Index Price—The natural gas index price as defined in Section 2.1, Definitions.
RTPERFIP q, r	none	Fuel Index Price Percentage—The percentage of natural gas used by Resource r to operate above LSL, as submitted with the energy offer curve.
FOP	$/MMBtu	Fuel Oil Price—The fuel oil index price as defined in Section 2.1.
RTPERFOP q, r	none	Fuel Oil Price Percentage—The percentage of fuel oil used by Resource r to operate above LSL, as submitted with the energy offer curve.
SFP	$/MMBtu	Solid Fuel Price—The solid fuel index price is $1.50.  
FPRC q, r	$/MMBtu	Fuel Price Calculated per Resource—The calculated index price for fuel for the Resource based on the Resources fuel mix.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train. 
GASPEROL q, r	none	Percent of Natural Gas to Operate Above LSL—The percentage of natural gas used by Resource r to operate above LSL, as approved in the verifiable cost process.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
OILPEROL q, r	none	Percent of Oil to Operate Above LSL—The percentage of fuel oil used by Resource r to operate above LSL, as approved in the verifiable cost process.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
SFPEROL q, r	none	Percent of Solid Fuel to Operate Above LSL—The percentage of solid fuel used by Resource r to operate above LSL, as approved in the verifiable cost process.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
FA q, r	$/MMBtu	Fuel Adder—The fuel adder is the average cost above the index price Resource r has paid to obtain fuel.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  See the Verifiable Cost Manual for additional information.
OM q, r	$/MWh	Variable Operations and Maintenance Cost above LSL—The O&M cost for Resource r to operate above LSL, including an adjustment for emissions costs, as approved in the verifiable cost process.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  See the Verifiable Cost Manual for additional information.
WAFP q, r, h	$/MMBtu	Weighted Average Fuel Price—The volume-weighted average intraday, same-day and spot price of fuel submitted to ERCOT during the Adjustment Period for a specific Resource and specific hour within the Operating Day, as described in paragraph (1)(d) below. 
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A Generation Resource.
h	none	The Operating Hour. 
(a)	For a Resource contracted by ERCOT under paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, ERCOT Control Area Authority, ERCOT shall increase the O&M cost such that every point on the MOC curve is greater than the SWCAP in $/MWh.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(a)	For a Resource contracted by ERCOT under paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, ERCOT Control Area Authority, ERCOT shall increase the O&M cost such that every point on the MOC curve is greater than the effective Value of Lost Load (VOLL) in $/MWh.
(b)	Notwithstanding the MOC calculation described in paragraph (1) above, the MOC for ESRs shall be set at the SWCAP.  No later than December 31, 2023, ERCOT and stakeholders shall submit a report to TAC that includes a recommendation to continue the existing approach or a proposal to implement an alternative approach to determine the MOC for ESRs.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (b) above with the following upon the system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(b)	Notwithstanding the MOC calculation described in paragraph (1) above, the MOC for ESRs shall be set at the RTSWCAP.  No later than December 31, 2023, ERCOT and stakeholders shall submit a report to TAC that includes a recommendation to continue the existing approach or a proposal to implement an alternative approach to determine the MOC for ESRs.
(c)	For Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) the MOC shall be adjusted in accordance with Verifiable Cost Manual Appendix 7, Calculation of the Variable O&M Value and Incremental Heat Rate used in Real Time Mitigation for Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs).
[NPRR1008, NPRR1014, and NPRR1245:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (d) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008 and NPRR1245; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly:]
(d)	For hydro Generation Resources, the MOC shall be adjusted in accordance with Verifiable Cost Manual, Appendix 10, Setting the variables used in Mitigated Offer Cap for Hydro Generating Resources.
(d)	During the Adjustment Period, a QSE representing a Resource may submit Exceptional Fuel Cost as a volume-weighted average fuel price for use in the MOC calculation for that Resource.  To qualify as Exceptional Fuel Cost, the submission must meet the following conditions:
(i)	For all Resources, the weighted average fuel price must exceed FIP for the applicable Operating Day, plus a threshold parameter value of $1/MMBtu, plus the applicable fuel adder.  For Resources without approved verifiable costs, the fuel adder will be set to the default value assigned to Resources with approved verifiable costs, as defined in the Verifiable Cost Manual.  The threshold parameter value in this paragraph shall be recommended by the Wholesale Market Subcommittee (WMS) and approved by the TAC.  ERCOT shall update the threshold value on the first day of the month following TAC approval unless otherwise directed by the TAC.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(ii)	Fixed cost (fees, penalties and similar non-gas costs) may not be included in the calculation of the weighted average fuel price.
(iii)	All intra-day, same day, and spot fuel purchases must be included in the calculation of the weighted average fuel price in paragraph (1) above.  These must account for at least 10% of the total fuel volume burned by the applicable Resource for the hour for which the weighted average fuel price is computed.  As noted in paragraph (j) below, the methodology used in the allocation of the cost and volume of purchased fuel to the Resource for the hour is subject to validation by ERCOT.
(iv)	Weighted average fuel prices must be submitted individually for each Operating Hour for which they are applicable.  Values submitted outside of the Adjustment Period will be rejected and not used in the calculation of the MOC for the designated Operating Hour.
(e)	ERCOT may notify the Independent Market Monitor (IMM) if a QSE submits an Exceptional Fuel Cost. 
(f)	The day following an Operating Day for which an Exceptional Fuel Cost is submitted, ERCOT shall post a report on the ERCOT website indicating the affected Operating Hours and the number of Resources for which a QSE submitted Exceptional Fuel Cost for a particular Operating Day.
(g)	No later than 1700 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on the 15th day following an Exceptional Fuel Cost submission, the submitting QSE shall provide ERCOT with the calculation of the weighted average fuel price, intraday or same-day fuel purchases, if applicable, and any available supporting documentation.  Such information may include, but is not limited to, documents of the following nature: relevant contracts between the QSE or Resource Entity and fuel supplier, trade logs, transportation, storage, balancing and distribution agreements, calculation of the weighted average fuel price, or any other documentation necessary to support the Exceptional Fuel Cost price and volume for the applicable period(s).
(h)	No later than 1700 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on the 60th day following an Exceptional Fuel Cost submission, the submitting QSE shall provide ERCOT with all supporting documentation not previously provided to ERCOT.  No supporting documentation will be accepted after the 60th day.
(i)	The accuracy of submitted Exceptional Fuel Cost and the need for purchasing intraday or same-day gas must be attested to by a duly authorized officer or agent of the QSE representing the Resource.  The attestation must be provided in a standardized format acceptable to ERCOT and submitted with the other documentation described in paragraph (g) above.
(j)	ERCOT will use the supporting documentation to validate the Exceptional Fuel Cost for the applicable period.  Validation will include, but not be limited to, the cost and the quantity of purchased fuel, Resource-specific heat rates, and the methodology used in the allocation of the cost and volume of purchased fuel, if applicable, to the Resource for the applicable hour used in the weighted average fuel price calculation.  In connection with the validation process ERCOT may request additional documentation or clarification of previously submitted documentation.  Such requests must be honored within ten Business Days.  
(k)	At ERCOT’s sole discretion, submission and follow-up information deadlines may be extended on a case-by-case basis. 
4.4.9.4.2	Mitigated Offer Floor
(1)	Energy Offer Curves may be subject to mitigation in the Real-Time Market (RTM) under Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, using a Mitigated Offer Floor.  The Mitigated Offer Floor is: 
Resource Category	Mitigated Offer Floor
Nuclear and Hydro	-$250/MWh
Coal and Lignite	-$20/MWh
Combined Cycle	-$20/MWh
Gas/Oil Steam and Combustion Turbine	-$20/MWh
Qualifying Facility (QF) 	-$50/MWh
Wind	-$100/MWh
PhotoVoltaic (PV)	-$50/MWh
Other	-$50/MWh

[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	Energy Offer Curves and Energy Bid/Offer Curves may be subject to mitigation in the RTM under Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, using a Mitigated Offer Floor.  The Mitigated Offer Floor is: 
Resource Category	Mitigated Offer Floor
Nuclear and Hydro	-$250/MWh
Coal and Lignite	-$20/MWh
Combined Cycle	-$20/MWh
Gas/Oil Steam and Combustion Turbine	-$20/MWh
Qualifying Facility (QF) 	-$50/MWh
Wind	-$100/MWh
PhotoVoltaic (PV)	-$50/MWh
Energy Storage Resource (ESR)	-$250/MWh
Other	-$50/MWh


[NPRR826:  Insert Section 4.4.9.4.3 below upon system implementation:]
4.4.9.4.3	Mitigated Offer Cap for RMR Resources 
(1)	For each Resource contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, the Resource’s MOC curve for use in the SCED process is determined using the steps below when the Resource’s offer is subject to mitigation in accordance with Section 3.19, Constraint Competitiveness Tests.  The single price ($/MWh) value determined below will be used as the MOC curve for the full operating range of the Resource.  The calculations will occur between the first and second step within the SCED process as well as during the process for determining Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.  This analysis will only be applied to active constraints for which the contracted Resource has a more than 2% unloading Shift Factor on the Transmission Facility(s), more than 5% unloading impact on the Transmission Facility(s) based on telemetered HSL, and if at least one other Resource not contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1 has an unloading Shift Factor of 5% or more relative to the constraint(s).  If this criteria is not met, the MOC curve for the Resource shall be calculated in accordance with Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap, and Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs. 
(a) 	For each Resource that is not a Resource contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1 or paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1 and that has an unloading Shift Factor of at least RMRSF percent relative to the constraint(s), determine the higher of zero or the difference between the price ($/MWh) at HSL from the Energy Offer Curves determined for use in SCED Step 2, which may or may not be mitigated, and system lambda from SCED Step 1 and divide that difference by the absolute value of that Resource’s Shift Factor for the corresponding constraint.  The value of RMRSF will default to 5% until a different value is approved by TAC considering the analysis and data used by ERCOT to determine the need for the contracted Resource under Section 3.14.1.  ERCOT shall post the current TAC-approved value(s) of RMRSF on the ERCOT website.
(b) 	For each constraint, identify the largest value that is less than maximum Shadow Price for the specific constraint.  
(c) 	For each SCED interval for each constraint, determine a value equal to the minimum of:
(i)	The value determined in paragraph (b) above plus $0.01/MWh; and
(ii)	The maximum Shadow Price for the constraint minus $1/MWh.
(d) 	For each SCED interval for each constraint, multiply the resulting value from paragraph (c) above by the absolute value of the Shift Factor of the Resource contracted by ERCOT to the corresponding constraint.  For SCED intervals in which there are multiple constraints which are being analyzed, the lowest value is used for the SCED interval.
(e)	If the value from paragraph (b) above for any constraint analyzed is zero, the MOC curve for the RMR Resource shall be calculated in accordance with Section 4.4.9.4.1 and Section 5.6.1.  If the value from paragraph (b) above for every constraint analyzed is greater than zero, the RMR Resource’s MOC curve for use in Step 2 of the SCED process is the sum of system lambda from Step 1 of SCED in the interval and the value from (d) above. 
4.4.9.5	DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves
(1)	A QSE must submit any DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves by 1000 for the effective DAM. 
(2)	The DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve represents the QSE’s willingness to sell energy at or above a certain price and at a certain quantity at a specific Settlement Point in the DAM.  A DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve may be offered only in the DAM.
(3)	DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves are not Resource-specific.
4.4.9.5.1	DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve Criteria
(1)	Each DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The selling QSE;
(b)	The Settlement Point;
(c)	The fixed quantity block, variable quantity block, or curve indicator for the offer; 
(i)	If a fixed quantity block, the single price (in $/MWh) and single quantity (in MW) for all hours offered in that block , which may clear at a Settlement Point Price less than the offer price for that block;
(ii)	If a variable quantity block, the single price (in $/MWh) and single “up to” quantity (in MW) contingent on the purchase of all hours offered in that block; and
(iii)	If a curve, a monotonically increasing energy offer curve for both price (in $/MWh) and quantity (in MW) with no more than ten price/quantity pairs; 
(d)	The first and last hour of the offer; and
(e)	The expiration time and date of the offer.
(2)	A DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve must be within the range of -$250.00 per MWh and the SWCAP in dollars per MWh.  
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	A DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve must be within the range of -$250.00 per MWh and the DASWCAP in dollars per MWh.
(3)	The minimum amount for each DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve that may be offered is one MW.
(4)	DAM Energy-Only Offers, DAM Energy Bids, and/or PTP Obligation bids shall not be submitted in combination to create the net effect of a single PTP Obligation containing a source Settlement Point and a sink Settlement Point that are Electrically Similar Settlement Points for the QSE or for any combination of QSEs within the same Counter-Party.
4.4.9.5.2	DAM Energy-Only Offer Validation
(1)	A valid DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve is an offer that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.9.5.1, DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE submitting a DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve by the Messaging System if the offer was rejected or was considered invalid for any reason, with the exception of paragraph (4) of Section 4.4.9.5.1.  The QSE may then resubmit the offer within the appropriate market timeline.
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate DAM Energy-Only Offers and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE to view its valid DAM Energy-Only Offers.  
4.4.9.6	DAM Energy Bids 
(1)	A QSE must submit any DAM Energy Bids by 1000 for the effective DAM. 
(2)	A DAM Energy Bid represents the QSE’s willingness to buy energy at or below a certain price and at a certain quantity at a specific Settlement Point in the DAM.  A DAM Energy Bid may be made only in the DAM.
4.4.9.6.1	DAM Energy Bid Criteria
(1)	Each DAM Energy Bid must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The buying QSE;
(b)	The Settlement Point;
(c)	Fixed quantity block, variable quantity block, or curve indicator for the bid; 
(i)	If a fixed quantity block, the single price (in $/MWh) and single quantity (in MW) for all hours bid in that block, which may clear at a Settlement Point Price greater than the bid price for that block;
(ii)	If a variable quantity block, the single price (in $/MWh) and single “up to” quantity (in MW) contingent on the purchase of all hours bid in that block; and
(iii)	If a curve, a monotonically decreasing energy bid curve for price (in $/MWh) and monotonically increasing for quantity (in MW) with no more than 10 price/quantity pairs.
(d)	The first and last hour of the bid; and
(e)	The expiration time and date of the bid.
(2)	The minimum amount for each DAM Energy Bid that may be bid is one MW.
(3)	DAM Energy-Only Offers, DAM Energy Bids, and/or PTP Obligation bids shall not be submitted in combination to create the net effect of a single PTP Obligation containing a source Settlement Point and a sink Settlement Point that are Electrically Similar Settlement Points for the QSE or for any combination of QSEs within the same Counter-Party.
4.4.9.6.2	DAM Energy Bid Validation
(1)	A valid DAM Energy Bid is a bid that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.9.6.1, DAM Energy Bid Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE submitting a DAM Energy Bid by the Messaging System if the bid was rejected or was considered invalid for any reason, with the exception of paragraph (3) of Section 4.4.9.6.1.  The QSE may then resubmit the bid within the appropriate market timeline.
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate DAM Energy Bids and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE to view its valid DAM Energy Bids.  
[NPRR1014:  Insert Section 4.4.9.7 below upon system implementation:]
4.4.9.7	Energy Bid/Offer Curve
(1)	The Energy Bid/Offer Curve represents the willingness of a QSE representing an ESR to buy energy at or below a certain price and sell energy at or above a certain price and at a certain quantity in the DAM or its willingness to be dispatched by SCED in Real-Time Operations.  ERCOT must validate each Energy Bid/Offer Curve in accordance with Section 4.4.9.7.2, Energy Bid/Offer Curve Validation, before it can be used in any ERCOT process.  
(2)	A QSE may submit Resource-Specific Energy Bid/Offer Curves to ERCOT.  Such Energy Bid/Offer Curves will be bounded in the DAM for each Operating Hour by the LSL and HSL of the ESR specified in the COP, and bounded in SCED by the LSL and HSL of the ESR as shown by telemetry.
(3)	In the DAM, ERCOT will not consider COP Resource Status when evaluating Energy Bid/Offer Curves. In the Real-Time Market (RTM), SCED will consider an ESR unavailable for SCED Dispatch when the ESR’s Resource Status is OUT.
(4)	Energy Bid/Offer Curves remain active for the offered period until either:  
(a)	Selected by ERCOT; or 
(b)	Automatically inactivated by the software at the offer expiration time selected by the QSE.
(5)	In the RTM, a QSE may submit or change an Energy Bid/Offer Curve at any time prior to SCED execution, and SCED will use the latest updated Energy Bid/Offer Curve available in the system.  If a new Energy Bid/Offer Curve is not deemed to be valid, then the most recent valid Energy Bid/Offer Curve available in the system at the time of SCED execution will be used and ERCOT will notify the QSE that the invalid Energy Bid/Offer Curve was rejected.  Once an Operating Hour ends, an Energy Bid/Offer Curve for that hour cannot be submitted, updated, or canceled. 
(6)	A QSE may withdraw an Energy Bid/Offer Curve if:
(a)	An Output Schedule is submitted for all intervals for which an Energy Bid/Offer Curve is withdrawn; or
(b)	The ESR is forced Off-Line and notifies ERCOT of the Forced Outage by changing the Resource Status appropriately and updating its COP.
(7)	At the time of SCED execution, if a valid Energy Bid/Offer Curve or Output Schedule does not exist for an ESR that has a status of On-Line, then ERCOT shall notify the QSE and create a proxy Energy Bid/Offer Curve priced at -$250/MWh for the portion of the curve less than zero MW, and priced at the RTSWCAP for the portion of the curve greater than zero MW.

[NPRR1014:  Insert Section 4.4.9.7.1 below upon system implementation:]
4.4.9.7.1	Energy Bid/Offer Curve Criteria
(1)	Each Energy Bid/Offer Curve must be reported by a QSE representing an ESR and must include the following information:
(a)	The selling QSE;
(b)	The ESR represented by the QSE from which the bid and offer would be provided;
(c)	A monotonically non-decreasing curve for both price (in $/MWh) and quantity (in MW) with no more than ten price/quantity pairs.  Negative MW values cover the charging MW range, and the positive MW values cover the discharging MW range.  The price points corresponding to the charging MW range represent the not-to-exceed bid prices to consume energy, and the price points corresponding to the discharging MW range represent the offer prices to sell energy;
(d)	The first and last hour of the offer; 
(e)	The expiration time and date of the offer; 
(2)	An Energy Bid/Offer Curve shall be bounded by -$250.00 per MWh and either the DASWCAP or RTSWCAP depending on the timing of the submission in dollars per MWh.  The ERCOT systems must allow ERCOT to enter ESR-specific Energy Bid/Offer Curve floors and caps.
(3)	In DAM and RTM, an Energy Bid/Offer Curve shall be considered to be inclusive of Ancillary Service Offers.

[NPRR1014:  Insert Section 4.4.9.7.2 below upon system implementation:]
4.4.9.7.2	Energy Bid/Offer Curve Validation
(1)	A valid Energy Bid/Offer Curve is a curve that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.9.7.1, Energy Bid/Offer Curve Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE submitting an Energy Bid/Offer Curve by the Messaging System if the offer was rejected or was considered invalid for any reason.  The QSE may then resubmit the Energy Bid/Offer Curve within the appropriate market timeline.
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Energy Bid/Offer Curves and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE to view its valid Energy Bid/Offer Curves.

[NPRR1188:  Insert Section 4.4.9.8 below upon system implementation:]
4.4.9.8	Energy Bid Curves
(1)	An Energy Bid Curve represents the willingness to buy energy at or below a certain price, not to exceed the SWCAP, for the Demand response capability of a CLR in the DAM or the RTM.  
(2)	An Energy Bid Curve remains active for the offered period until automatically inactivated at the offer expiration time specified in the Energy Bid Curve.
(3)	For any Operating Hour, the QSE may submit or change an Energy Bid Curve at any time prior to SCED execution, and SCED will use the latest updated Energy Bid Curve available in the system.  If a new Energy Bid Curve is not deemed to be valid, then the most recent valid Energy Bid Curve available in the system at the time of SCED execution will be used and ERCOT will notify the QSE that the invalid Energy Bid Curve was rejected.
(4)	Once an Operating Hour ends, an Energy Bid Curve for that hour cannot be submitted, updated, or canceled.

[NPRR1188:  Insert Section 4.4.9.8.1 below upon system implementation:]
4.4.9.8.1	Energy Bid Curve Criteria
(1)	Each Energy Bid Curve submitted by a QSE must include the following information:
(a)	The submitting QSE’s name;
(b)	The Load Resource’s name;
(c)	A bid curve with no more than ten price/quantity pairs with monotonically non-increasing not-to-exceed prices (in $/MWh) and with increasing quantities ranging from zero to the Load Resource’s maximum demand response capability (in MW) represented by the difference between the Load Resource’s telemetered Maximum Power Consumption (MPC) and Low Power Consumption (LPC);
(d)	The first and last hour of the bid; and
(e)	The expiration time and date of the bid.
(2)	The software systems must be able to provide ERCOT with the ability to enter Resource-specific Energy Bid Curve floors and caps.
(3)	The minimum amount that may be submitted per Load Resource for each Energy Bid Curve is one-tenth (0.1) MW.
(4)	Prices included in the submitted Energy Bid Curve may not exceed the SWCAP.

[NPRR1188:  Insert Section 4.4.9.8.2 below upon system implementation:]
4.4.9.8.2	Energy Bid Curve Validation
(1)	A valid Energy Bid Curve is a bid that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.9.8.1, Energy Bid Curve Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE submitting an Energy Bid Curve via the Messaging System if the bid was rejected and the reason that it was considered invalid.  The QSE may then resubmit the bid within the appropriate market timeline.
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Energy Bid Curves and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE to view its valid Energy Bid Curves.
4.4.10	Credit Requirement for DAM Bids and Offers
(1)	Each QSE’s ability to bid and offer in the DAM is subject to credit exposure from the QSE’s bids and offers being within the credit limit for DAM participation established for the entire Counter-Party of which the QSE is part, as specified in item (1) of Section 16.11.4.6.2, Credit Requirements for DAM Participation, and taking into account the credit exposure of accepted DAM bid and offers of the Counter-Party’s other QSEs. 
(2)	DAM bids and offers of all QSEs of the Counter-Party are accepted in the order submitted while ensuring that the credit exposure from accepted bids and offers do not exceed the Counter-Party’s credit limit for DAM participation. 
(3)	ERCOT shall reject the QSE’s individual bids and offers whose credit exposure, as calculated in item (6) below, exceeds the Counter-Party’s credit limit for DAM participation as described in items (1) and (2) above, and shall notify the QSE through the MIS Certified Area as soon as practicable. 
(4) 	The QSE may revise and resubmit such rejected bids and offers described in item (3) above, provided that the resubmitted bids and offers are valid and within the Counter-Party’s credit limit for DAM participation adjusted for all accepted DAM bids and offers of the Counter-Party’s QSE’s limit and that such resubmission occurs prior to 1000 of the Operating Day. 
(5)	The DAM shall use the Counter-Party’s credit limit for DAM participation provided and adjusted for accepted bids and offers for DAM transactions cleared, until a new credit limit for DAM participation is available.
(6)	ERCOT shall calculate credit exposure for bids and offers in the DAM as follows: 
(a)	For a DAM Energy Bid, the credit exposure shall be calculated as the quantity of the bid multiplied by a bid exposure price that is calculated as follows:  
(i)	If the price of the DAM Energy Bid is less than or equal to zero, the bid exposure price for that quantity will equal zero.
(ii)	If the price of the DAM Energy Bid is greater than zero, the bid exposure price for that quantity will equal the greater of zero or the sum of (A) and (B):
(A)	The lesser of:
(1)	The dth percentile of the Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price (DASPP) for the hour over the previous 30 days; and 
(2)	The bid price.
(B)	The value e1 multiplied by (bid price minus (A)) when the bid price is greater than (A).
(1)	The value e1 is computed as the ep1th percentile of Ratio1 for the  30 days prior to the Operating Day, where Ratio1 is calculated daily as follows:
Ratio1 = Min[1, Max[0, (∑h=1,24 ∑_p^ ▒ (DAM EOB Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p  - DAM EOO Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p - DAM TPO Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p)) / (∑ h=1,24 ∑_p^ ▒ (DAM EOB Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p))]] 
except Ratio1 = 1 when ∑ h=1,24 ∑_p^ ▒ (DAM EOB Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p ) = 0
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAM EOB Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Energy Only Bids Cleared.  DAM Energy Only Bids Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
DAM EOO Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Energy Only Offers Cleared.  DAM Energy Only Offers Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
DAM TPO Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Three-Part Offers Cleared.  DAM Three-Part Offers Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
DASPP h, p	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
h	none	An Operating Hour.
p	none	A Settlement Point.

(2)	Default values are outlined in paragraph (10) below.
(3)	A Counter-Party may request for favorable treatment as described in paragraph (7) below and, upon ERCOT agreeing to such request, ERCOT may adjust e1 by changing the quantity of bids or offers to the values reported by the Counter-Party in paragraph (7) below or based on information available to ERCOT.
(iii)	For DAM Energy Bids of curve quantity type, the credit exposure shall be the credit exposure, as calculated above, at the price and MW quantity of the bid curve that produces the maximum credit exposure for the DAM Energy Bid.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(a)	For a DAM Energy Bid, Energy Bid Curve, or for each MW portion of the bid portion of an Energy Bid/Offer Curve, the credit exposure shall be calculated as the quantity of the bid multiplied by a bid exposure price that is calculated as follows:  
(i)	If the price of the DAM Energy Bid, Energy Bid Curve, or the price on the bid portion of an Energy Bid/Offer Curve is less than or equal to zero, the bid exposure price for that quantity will equal zero.
(ii)	If the price of the DAM Energy Bid, Energy Bid Curve, or the price on the bid portion of an Energy Bid/Offer Curve is greater than zero, the bid exposure price for that quantity will equal the greater of zero or the sum of (A) and (B):
(A)	The lesser of:
(1)	The dth percentile of the Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price (DASPP) for the hour over the previous 30 days; and 
(2)	The bid price.
(B)	The value e1 multiplied by (bid price minus (A)) when the bid price is greater than (A).
(1)	The value e1 is computed as the ep1th percentile of Ratio1 for the  30 days prior to the Operating Day, where Ratio1 is calculated daily as follows:
Ratio1 = Min[1, Max[0, (∑h=1,24 ∑_p^ ▒ (DAM EOB Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p  - DAM EOO Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p - DAM TPO Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p)) / (∑ h=1,24 ∑_p^ ▒ (DAM EOB Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p))]] 
except Ratio1 = 1 when ∑ h=1,24 ∑_p^ ▒ (DAM EOB Cleared h, p * DASPP h, p ) = 0
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAM EOB Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Energy Only Bids Cleared.  DAM Energy Only Bids Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
DAM EOO Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Energy Only Offers Cleared.  DAM Energy Only Offers Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
DAM TPO Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Three-Part Offers Cleared.  DAM Three-Part Offers Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
DASPP h, p	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
h	none	An Operating Hour.
p	none	A Settlement Point.

(2)	Default values are outlined in paragraph (10) below.
(3) 	A Counter-Party may request for favorable treatment as described in paragraph (7) below and, upon ERCOT agreeing to such request, ERCOT may adjust e1 by changing the quantity of bids or offers to the values reported by the Counter-Party in paragraph (7) below or based on information available to ERCOT.
(iii)	For DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, or bid portions of Energy Bid/Offer Curves of curve quantity type, the credit exposure shall be the credit exposure, as calculated above, at the price and MW quantity of the bid curve that produces the maximum credit exposure for the DAM Energy Bid, Energy Bid Curve, or bid portions of Energy Bid/Offer Curves.
(b)	For each MW portion of a DAM Energy-Only Offer:
(i)	That has an offer price that is less than or equal to the ath percentile of the DASPP for the hour over the previous 30 days, the sum of (A) and (B) shall apply.   
(A)	Credit exposure will be:
(1)	Reduced (when the bth percentile Settlement Point Price for the hour is positive).  The reduction shall be the quantity of the offer multiplied by the bth percentile of the DASPP for the hour over the previous 30 days multiplied by the value e2.
(a)	The value e2 is computed as the ep2th percentile of Ratio2 for the 30 days prior to the Operating Day, where Ratio2 is calculated daily as follows:
Ratio2 = 1 - Max[0, (∑h=1,24 ((DAM EOO Cleared h, p + DAM TPO Cleared h, p) - DAM EOB Cleared h, p) / (∑ h=1,24 (DAM EOO Cleared h, p + DAM TPO Cleared h, p)))]
except Ratio2 = 0 when ∑ h=1,24 (DAM EOO Cleared h, p + DAM TPO Cleared h, p)= 0
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAM EOB Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Energy Only Bids Cleared.  DAM Energy Only Bids Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
DAM EOO Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Energy Only Offers Cleared.  DAM Energy Only Offers Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
DAM TPO Cleared h, p	MWh	DAM Three-Part Offers Cleared.  DAM Three-Part Offers Cleared for Operating Hour h at Settlement Point p
h	none	An Operating Hour.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
(b)	Default values are outlined in paragraph (10) below.
(c)	A Counter-Party may request for favorable treatment as described in paragraph (7) below and, upon ERCOT agreeing to such request, Ratio2 is calculated at non zero value described above.
(d)	ERCOT may adjust the value of e2 by changing the quantity of bids or offers to the values reported by the Counter-Party in paragraph (7) below or based on information available to ERCOT; or
(2)	Increased (when the bth percentile Settlement Point Price for the hour is negative).  The increase shall be the quantity of the offer multiplied by the absolute value of the bth percentile of the DASPP for the hour over the previous 30 days.  
(B)	Credit exposure will be increased by the product of the quantity of the offer multiplied by the dpth percentile of the hourly difference between Real-Time Settlement Point Price and DASPP (where any negative differences are set to zero) over the previous 30 days for the hour multiplied by e3.
(ii)	That has an offer price that is greater than the ath percentile of the DASPP for the hour over the previous 30 days, credit exposure will be increased by the product of the quantity of the offer multiplied by the dpth percentile of the hourly difference between Real-Time Settlement Point Price and DASPP (where any negative differences are set to zero) over the previous 30 days for the hour multiplied by e3.  
(iii)	ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, use a percentile other than the dpth percentile of the hourly difference between Real-Time Settlement Point Price and DASPP (where any negative differences are set to zero) over the previous 30 days in determining credit exposure per this paragraph (6)(b) in evaluating DAM Energy-Only Offers.  
(c)	For each MW portion of the Energy Offer Curve of a Three-Part Supply Offer:
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	For each MW portion of the Energy Offer Curve of a Three-Part Supply Offer or for each MW portion of the offer portion of an Energy Bid/Offer Curve:
(i)	That has an offer price that is less than or equal to the yth percentile of the DASPP for the hour over the previous 30 days, credit exposure will be reduced (when the zth percentile Settlement Point Price is positive) or increased (when the zth percentile Settlement Point Price is negative) by the quantity of the offer multiplied by the absolute value of the zth percentile of the DASPP for the hour over the previous 30 days.  
(ii)	That has an offer price that is greater than the yth percentile of the DASPP for the hour over the previous 30 days, the credit exposure will be zero.
(iii)	For a Combined Cycle Generation Resource with Three-Part Supply Offers for multiple generator configurations, the reduction in credit exposure will be the maximum credit exposure reduction created by the individual Three-Part Supply Offers’ Offer Curves (when the zth percentile Settlement Point Price is positive).  If the Three-Part Supply Offer causes a credit increase (when the zth percentile Settlement Point Price is negative), the increase in credit exposure will be the maximum credit exposure increase created by the individual Three-Part Supply Offers.
(d)	For PTP Obligation Bids:
(i)	That have a bid price greater than zero, the sum of the quantity of the bid multiplied by the bid price, plus the uth percentile of the hourly positive price difference between the source Real-Time Settlement Point Price minus the sink Real-Time Settlement Point Price over the previous 30 days multiplied by the quantity of the bid.
(ii)	That have a bid price less than or equal to zero, the uth percentile of the hourly positive price difference between the source Real-Time Settlement Point Price minus the sink Real-Time Settlement Point Price over the previous 30 days multiplied by the quantity of the bid.
(iii)	Each tenth of a MW quantity (0.1 MW) of an expiring CRR for a Counter-Party can provide credit reduction for only one-tenth of a MW (0.1 MW) of a PTP Obligation bid for that Counter-Party.  
(A)	The QSE must submit the PTP Obligation bid at the same source and sink pair for the same hour, for the same operating date where the QSE submitting the PTP Obligation bid is represented by the same Counter-Party as the CRR Account Holder that is the owner of record for an expiring CRR, or group of CRRs.
(B)	A portion or all of the PTP Obligation bid quantity must be less than or equal to the total of the quantity of all expiring CRRs at the specified source and sink pair and delivery period, less all valid previously submitted PTP Obligation bids at the specified source and sink pair and delivery period.
(iv)	For qualified PTP Obligation bids with a bid price greater than zero, ERCOT shall reduce the credit exposure in paragraph (6)(d)(i) above as follows: 
Credit Reduction = Reduction Factor * min[PTP bid quantity, remaining expiring CRR MWs] * bid price. 
The Reduction Factor is bd%.  The factor can be adjusted up or down at ERCOT’s sole discretion with at least two Bank Business Days’ notice.  ERCOT may adjust this factor up with less notice, if needed.  The expiring CRR may be PTP Options and/or PTP Obligations.  If a QSE later cancels the PTP Obligation bid then the amount of exposure credited back to the Counter-Party will be treated as though this PTP Obligation bid was previously offset by expiring CRRs if a matching CRR source and sink pair exists up to the maximum expiring CRR quantity.  If a QSE updates the PTP Obligation bid then it will be treated as a cancel followed by a new submission for purposes of credit exposure calculation.  Outcome of this calculation is dependent of the sequence of submittals for updates and cancels.
(e)	For PTP Obligation bids with Links to an Option with a bid price greater than zero:
Credit Exposure = (1- Reduction Factor bd) * (bid quantity * bid price) 
(f)	For Ancillary Service Obligations not self-arranged, the product of the quantity of Ancillary Service Obligation not self-arranged multiplied by the tth percentile of the hourly MCPC for that Ancillary Service over the previous 30 days for that hour.  For negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities, the absolute value of the product of the quantity of the negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity times the tth percentile of the hourly MCPC for that Ancillary Service over the previous 30 days for that hour.  
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (g) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly:]
(g)	For Ancillary Service Only Offers, credit exposure will be increased by the sum of the quantity of the Ancillary Service Only Offer multiplied by the dpth percentile of the positive hourly difference for that Ancillary Service between RTMCPC and DAMCPC for that Ancillary Service over the previous 30 days for the Operating Hour of the Ancillary Service Only Offer.
(g)	Values e1, e2, or e3, which are applicable to items (a) and (b) above, under conditions described below, will be determined and applied at ERCOT’s sole discretion.  Within the application parameters identified below, ERCOT shall establish values for e1, e2, and e3 and provide notice to an affected Counter-Party of any changes to e1, e2, or e3 before 0900 generally two Bank Business Days prior to the normally scheduled DAM 1000 by a minimum of two of these methods:  written, electronic, posting to the MIS Certified Area or telephonic.  However, ERCOT may adjust any DAM credit parameter immediately if, in its sole discretion, ERCOT determines that the parameter(s) set for a Counter-Party do not adequately match the financial risk created by that Counter-Party’s activities in the market.  ERCOT shall review the values for e1, e2, or e3 for each Counter-Party no less than once every two weeks.  ERCOT shall provide written or electronic notice to the Counter-Party of the basis for ERCOT’s assessment, or change of assessment, of the exposure adjustment variable established for the Counter-Party and the impact of the adjustment.
(i)	The value of each exposure adjustment e1, e2, and e3 is a value between zero and one, rounded to the nearest hundredth decimal place, set by ERCOT by Counter-Party.  The values ERCOT establishes for e1, e2, and e3 for a Counter-Party shall be applied equally to the portfolio of all QSEs represented by such Counter-Party.
(h)	ERCOT must re-examine DAM credit parameters immediately if Counter-Party exceeds 90% of its Available Credit Limit (ACL) available to DAM.
(7)	A Counter-Party may request more favorable parameters from ERCOT by agreeing to all of the conditions below: 
(a)	The Counter-Party shall notify ERCOT of any expected changes to Ratio1 or Ratio2, due to change in activity, as described below, and the likely duration of such change as soon as practicable, but no later than two Business Days in advance of the change:
(i)	If Ratio1 as defined in paragraph (6)(a)(ii)(B) above is likely to be greater than the Counter-Party's currently assigned value of e1 for particular day(s), then the estimated daily values of Ratio1 specifying the day(s) along with the daily DAM Energy Bid, Energy-Only Offer, and Three-Part Supply Offer quantity assumptions used to arrive at those values; and
(ii)	If Ratio2 as defined in paragraph (6)(b)(i)(A)(1) above is likely to be lower than the Counter-Party's currently assigned value of e2 for particular day(s), then the estimated daily values of Ratio2 specifying the day(s) along with the daily DAM Energy Bid, Energy-Only Offer, and Three-Part Supply Offer quantity assumption used to arrive at those values.
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(a)	The Counter-Party shall notify ERCOT of any expected changes to Ratio1 or Ratio2, due to change in activity, as described below, and the likely duration of such change as soon as practicable, but no later than two Business Days in advance of the change:
(i)	If Ratio1 as defined in paragraph (6)(a)(ii)(B) above is likely to be greater than the Counter-Party's currently assigned value of e1 for particular day(s), then the estimated daily values of Ratio1 specifying the day(s) along with the daily DAM Energy Bid, Energy-Only Offer, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and Three-Part Supply Offer quantity assumptions used to arrive at those values; and
(ii)	If Ratio2 as defined in paragraph (6)(b)(i)(A)(1) above is likely to be lower than the Counter-Party's currently assigned value of e2 for particular day(s), then the estimated daily values of Ratio2 specifying the day(s) along with the daily DAM Energy Bid, Energy-Only Offer, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and Three-Part Supply Offer quantity assumption used to arrive at those values.
(b)	ERCOT, in its sole discretion, will determine the adequacy of the disclosures made in item (a) above and may require additional information as needed to evaluate whether a Counter- Party is eligible for favorable treatment.
(c)	ERCOT may change the requirements for providing information, as described in item (a) above, to ensure that reasonable information is obtained from Counter-Parties.
(d)	ERCOT may, but is not required, to use information provided by a Counter-Party to re-evaluate DAM credit parameters and may take other information into consideration as needed.    
(e)	If ERCOT determines that information provided to ERCOT is erroneous or that ERCOT has not been notified of required changes, ERCOT may set all parameters for the Counter-Party to the default values with a possible adder on the e1 variable, at ERCOT's sole discretion, for a period of not less than seven days and until ERCOT is satisfied that the Counter-Party has and will comply with the conditions set forth in this Section.  In no case shall the adder result in an e1 value greater than one.
(8)	Beginning no later than 0800 and ending at 0945 each Business Day, ERCOT shall post to the MIS Certified Area, approximately every 15 minutes, each active Counter-Party’s remaining Available Credit Limit (ACL) for that day’s DAM and the time at which the report was run. 
(9)	After the DAM results are posted, ERCOT shall post once each Business Day on the MIS Certified Area each active Counter-Party’s calculated aggregate DAM credit exposure and its aggregate DAM credit exposure per transaction type, to the extent available, as it pertains to the most recent DAM Operating Day.  The transaction types are:
(a)	DAM Energy Bids; 
[NPRR1188:  Replace item (a) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(a)	DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves;
(b)	DAM Energy Only Offers;
(c)	PTP Obligation Bids;
(d)	Three-Part Supply Offers; and
(e)	Ancillary Services.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of item (e) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly:]
(e)	Ancillary Services related to Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities;
(f)	Ancillary Service Only Offers;
(g) 	Energy Bid/Offer Curves.
(10)     The parameters in this Section are defined as follows:
	The default values of the parameters are:

Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
d	percentile	85
ep1	percentile	95
a	percentile	50
b	percentile	45
dp	percentile	90
ep2	percentile	0
e2	value	0
e3	value	1
y	percentile	45
z	percentile	50
u	percentile	90
bd	%	90
t	percentile	50
* The current value for the parameters referenced in this table above will be recommended by TAC and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
	The values of the parameters for Entities that meet the requirements in paragraph (7) above for more favorable treatment are:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value
d	percentile	85
ep1	percentile	75
a	percentile	50
b	percentile	45
dp	percentile	90
ep2	percentile	25
e3	value	1
y	percentile	45
z	percentile	50
u	percentile	90
t	percentile	50
* The current value for the parameters referenced in this table above will be recommended by TAC and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
4.4.11	System-Wide Offer Caps
(1)	The SWCAP shall be determined in accordance with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules.  The methodology for determining the SWCAP is as follows: 
(a)	The Low System-Wide Offer Cap (LCAP) is set at $2,000 per MWh for energy and $2,000 per MW per hour for Ancillary Services. 
(b)	At the beginning of each year, the SWCAP shall be set equal to the High System-Wide Offer Cap (HCAP) and maintained at this level as long as the Peaker Net Margin (PNM) during a year is less than or equal to the PNM threshold per MW-year.  If the PNM exceeds the PNM threshold per MW-year during a year, on the next Operating Day, the SWCAP shall be reset to the LCAP for the remainder of that year.
(c)	ERCOT shall set the PNM threshold at three times the cost of new entry of new generation plants.
The above parameters are defined as follows.
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
HCAP	$/MWh	5,000
PNM threshold	$/MW-year	315,000
*  The current value for the parameters referenced in this table above will be recommended by TAC and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(2)	Any offers that exceed the current SWCAP shall be rejected by ERCOT. 
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1216:  Replace applicable portions of Section 4.4.11 above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1216; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008:]
4.4.11	Day-Ahead and Real-Time System-Wide Offer Caps
(1)	The DASWCAP and RTSWCAP shall be determined in accordance with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) rules.  The methodology for determining the DASWCAP and RTSWCAP is as follows: 
(a)	The DASWCAP and RTSWCAP shall be set equal to the respective High System-Wide Offer Cap (HCAP).  Additionally, the Value of Lost Load (VOLL) used to determine the ASDCs for DAM and RTM shall be set to the HCAP for DAM.  These caps shall be maintained at these levels until either of the following criteria are met:
(i)	If the sum of the Real-Time Market (RTM) System Lambda and Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy is greater than or equal to the HCAP for DAM for a total of 12 hours within a rolling 24-hour period, ERCOT will activate the Emergency Pricing Program (EPP) and the DASWCAP and VOLL used to determine the ASDCs for DAM and RTM will be set to ECAP starting at the beginning of the next Operating Hour that ERCOT can implement the change.  Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED)-level data, time-weight averaged to a 15-minute Settlement Interval equivalent, will be used to make this determination.  The EPP will remain active until the later of the following, at which point the ECAP Effective Period will end at the beginning of the next Operating Hour:
(A)	24 hours after the initial setting of these values to ECAP; or
(B)	24 hours after ERCOT exits Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) conditions, if ERCOT entered into or remained in EEA while the EPP was active.  If ERCOT reenters EEA conditions within 24 hours, then the ECAP Effective Period will continue for 24 hours after the latest exit from EEA conditions.
(ii)	If the Peaker Net Margin (PNM) exceeds the PNM threshold per MW-year during a year, the DASWCAP and the VOLL used to determine the ASDCs for DAM and RTM shall be set per the schedule in Section 4.4.11.1, Scarcity Pricing Mechanism.
(b)	ERCOT shall issue operations notices when the ECAP Effective Period begins and ends.  Such notices shall respectively state the date and time of the initiation and cessation of the ECAP Effective Period. 
(c)	ERCOT will post on the ERCOT website the cumulative number of hours in which the sum of the RTM System Lambda and Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adder for Energy has been greater than or equal to the DASWCAP over a rolling 24-hour period.  This calculation of cumulative hours will use the 15-minute Settlement Interval equivalent price referenced in paragraph (1)(a)(i) above.
(d)	Within ten Business Days of the end of the ECAP Effective Period, ERCOT shall file an initial report with the PUCT providing a summary of the event that triggered the EPP and an analysis of the EPP’s performance.
(e)	Within 90 days of the end of the ECAP Effective Period, ERCOT shall file a final report with the PUCT providing a summary of the event that triggered the EPP, an analysis of the EPP’s performance, and any recommendations to modify or improve the EPP.  The report shall also include the number of Resources for which Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) filed for cost recovery and the total dollar amount of costs submitted and costs recovered, including fuel type, MW per hour, and number of Resources associated with the recovered costs.
(f)	For the PNM process described above, ERCOT shall set the PNM threshold at three times the cost of new entry of new generation plants.
The above parameters are defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
ECAP	$/MWh	2,000
HCAP – DAM (DASWCAP)	$/MWh	5,000
HCAP – RTM (RTSWCAP)	$/MWh	2,000
LCAP	$/MWh	2,000
PNM threshold	$/MW-year	315,000
*  The current value for the parameters referenced in this table above will be recommended by TAC and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(2)	Any offers submitted that exceed the current respective DASWCAP or RTSWCAP shall be rejected by ERCOT.  The applicable cap will be dependent on the timing of the submission.
4.4.11.1	Scarcity Pricing Mechanism 
(1)	ERCOT shall operate the scarcity pricing mechanism in accordance with the PUCT Substantive Rules.  The methodology for determining the scarcity pricing mechanism is as follows: 
(a)	The scarcity pricing mechanism operates on a calendar year basis.
(b)	For each day of the year, the Peaking Operating Cost (POC) shall be ten times the effective daily FIP.  The POC is calculated in dollars per MWh.
(c)	For the purpose of this Section, the Real-Time Energy Price (RTEP) shall be measured as the ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub price.
(d)	For the current year, the PNM shall be calculated in dollars per MW on a cumulative basis for all past intervals in the year as follows:
∑((RTEP – POC) * (0.25)) for each Settlement Interval where (RTEP – POC) > 0
(2)	By the end of the next Business Day following the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post the updated value of the PNM and the current SWCAP on the ERCOT website.
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	By the end of the next Business Day following the applicable Operating Day, ERCOT shall post the updated value of the PNM and the current DASWCAP on the ERCOT website.
(3)	When the calculated PNM exceeds PNM threshold per MW-year, the SWCAP shall be changed to the LCAP in the following manner:
(a)	On the Operating Day that the PNM exceeds PNM threshold the HCAP will remain in effect for the balance of the day (Day 1).
(b)	During the next Operating Day (Day 2), ERCOT shall send a Market Notice that the LCAP is going into effect for the following Operating Day (Day 3).  At the end of Day 2 and following the last SCED interval at approximately 2355, the System Operator will approve the switchover from the HCAP to the LCAP.
(c)	All SCED intervals for Day 3 and through the end of the calendar year will use the LCAP.
(d)	On December 31 following the last SCED interval at approximately 2355, the System Operator will approve the switchover from the LCAP up to the HCAP for the next year.
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	When the calculated PNM exceeds PNM threshold per MW-year, the DASWCAP and the VOLL used to determine the ASDCs for DAM and RTM shall both be changed to the LCAP for the remainder of the calendar year, in the following manner:
(a)	On the Operating Day that the PNM exceeds the PNM threshold, the HCAP will remain in effect for the balance of the day and for the Operating Day thereafter (Days 1 and 2).
(b)	On the Operating Day after the PNM exceeds the PNM threshold (Day 2) prior to the execution of DAM, ERCOT shall send a Market Notice that the DASWCAP and the VOLL used to determine the ASDCs for DAM and RTM will both be changed to LCAP, effective for the following Operating Day (Day 3).  
(c)	For the Operating Day two days after the PNM threshold is exceeded (Day 3) and through the end of the calendar year, DAM and RTM will use the LCAP and ASDCs reflecting the updated VOLL.
(d)	On December 31, for Operating Day January 1, DASWCAP and the VOLL used to determine the ASDCs for the DAM and RTM will be reset to the HCAP for DAM for the new Resource adequacy cycle.

[NPRR1008, NPRR1216, and NPRR1245:  Insert applicable portions of Section 4.4.12 below upon system implementation of NPRR1216; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008 and NPRR1245:]
4.4.12	Determination of Ancillary Service Demand Curves for the Day-Ahead Market and Real-Time Market
(1)	This Section describes the process for determining ASDCs for Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up), Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down), Responsive Reserve (RRS), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) for the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and Real-Time Market (RTM).  This section does not apply to ASDCs used in the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process.
(2)	The DAM shall use the same ASDCs as the RTM, as an initial condition.  Specific to the DAM, the ASDCs will be adjusted, as needed, to account for negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities.
(3)	For Reg-Down, the ASDC shall be a constant value equal to VOLL for the full range of the Ancillary Service Plan for Reg-Down. 
(4)	To determine the individual ASDCs for Reg-Up, RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin, an Aggregate ORDC (AORDC) will be created and then disaggregated into individual curves for the different Ancillary Services.
(5)	ERCOT shall develop the AORDC from historical data from the period of June 1, 2014 through August 31, 2025 as follows:
(a)	For all SCED intervals where the sum of RTOLCAP and RTOFFCAP is less than 10,000 MW, use the RTOLCAP and RTOFFCAP values to calculate the AORDC as follows:

AORDC=(0.5*(1-pnorm(RTOLCAP-3000, 0.5*μ, 0.707*σ))+0.5*(1-pnorm(RTOLCAP+RTOFFCAP-3000, μ, σ)))*(VOLL-min(System Lambda,250))
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RTOLCAP	MWh	Real-Time On-Line Reserve Capacity – The Real-Time reserve capacity of On-Line Resources available for the SCED intervals beginning June 1, 2014 through August 31, 2025
RTOFFCAP	MWh	Real-Time Off-Line Reserve Capacity – The Real-Time reserve capacity of Off-Line Resources available for the SCED intervals beginning June 1, 2014 through August 31, 2025.
μ	None	The mean value of the shifted LOLP distribution as published for Summer 2026
σ	None	The standard deviation of the shifted LOLP distribution as published for Summer 2026
(b)	Using the results of step (a) above, use regression methods to fit a curve to the average reserve pricing outcomes for the various MW reserve levels.
(c)	Calculate points on the regression curve in 1 MW increments for any observed reserve level >= 3,000 MW and price >$0.01/MWh.  These points form the AORDC.
(6)	ERCOT shall disaggregate the AORDC developed pursuant to paragraph (5) above into individual ASDCs for each Ancillary Service product as follows:
(a)	The ASDC for all Reg-Up in the Ancillary Service Plan shall use the highest price portion of the AORDC;
(b)	The ASDC for all RRS in the Ancillary Service Plan shall use the highest price portion of the remaining AORDC after removing the portion of the AORDC that was used for the Reg-Up ASDC; 
(c)	The ASDC for all ECRS in the Ancillary Service Plan shall use the highest price portion of the remaining AORDC after removing the portions of the AORDC that were used for the Reg-Up and RRS ASDCs;
(d)	The ASDC for Non-Spin shall use the remaining portion of the remaining AORDC after removing the portions of the AORDC that were used for the Reg-Up, RRS, and ECRS ASDCs.
(7)	Each ASDC will be represented by a 100-point linear approximation to the corresponding part of the AORDC.  Fewer points may be used for cases where it would not result in decreased accuracy in representing the corresponding part of the AORDC.
(8)	The AORDC used in determining the individual ASDCs will be adjusted to reflect any updates to the value of VOLL, as described in Section 4.4.11, Day-Ahead and Real-Time System-Wide Offer Caps, and Section 4.4.11.1, Scarcity Pricing Mechanism.
4.5	DAM Execution and Results
4.5.1	DAM Clearing Process
(1)	At 1000 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall start the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) clearing process.  If the processing of DAM bids and offers after 0900 is significantly delayed or impacted by a failure of ERCOT software or systems that directly impacts the DAM, ERCOT shall post a Notice as soon as practicable on the ERCOT website, in accordance with paragraph (1) of Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, extending the start time of the execution of the DAM clearing process by an amount of time at least as long as the duration of the processing delay plus ten minutes.  In no event shall the extension exceed more than one hour from when the processing delay is resolved.
(2)	ERCOT shall complete a Day-Ahead Simultaneous Feasibility Test (SFT).  This test uses the Day-Ahead Updated Network Model topology and evaluates all Congestion Revenue Rights (CRRs) for feasibility to determine hourly oversold quantities.
(3)	The purpose of the DAM is to economically and simultaneously clear offers and bids described in Section 4.4, Inputs into DAM and Other Trades.
(4)	The DAM uses a multi-hour mixed integer programming algorithm to maximize bid-based revenues minus the offer-based costs over the Operating Day, subject to security and other constraints, and ERCOT Ancillary Service procurement requirements.  
(a)	The bid-based revenues include revenues from DAM Energy Bids and Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bids. 
(b)	The offer-based costs include costs from the Startup Offer, Minimum Energy Offer, and Energy Offer Curve of any Resource that submitted a Three-Part Supply Offer, DAM Energy-Only Offers and Ancillary Service Offers.  
(c)	Security constraints specified to prevent DAM solutions that would overload the elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid include the following: 
(i)	Transmission constraints – transfer limits on energy flows through the ERCOT Transmission Grid, e.g., thermal or stability limits.  These limits must be satisfied by the intact network and for certain specified contingencies.  These constraints may represent:
(A)	Thermal constraints – protect Transmission Facilities against thermal overload.
(B)	Generic constraints – protect the ERCOT Transmission Grid against transient instability, dynamic stability or voltage collapse.
(C)	Power flow constraints – the energy balance at required Electrical Buses in the ERCOT Transmission Grid must be maintained.  
(ii)	Resource constraints – the physical and security limits on Resources that submit Three-Part Supply Offers:
(A)	Resource output constraints – the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and High Sustained Limit (HSL) of each Resource; and 
(B)	Resource operational constraints – includes minimum run time, minimum down time, and configuration constraints.
(iii)	Other constraints – 
(A)	Linked offers – the DAM may not select any one part of that Resource capacity to provide more than one Ancillary Service or to provide both energy and an Ancillary Service in the same Operating Hour.  The DAM may, however, select part of that Resource capacity to provide one Ancillary Service and another part of that capacity to provide a different Ancillary Service or energy in the same Operating Hour, provided that linked Energy and Off-Line Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) Ancillary Service Offers are not awarded in the same Operating Hour.
(B)	The sum of the awarded Ancillary Service capacities for each Resource must be within the Resource limits specified in the Current Operating Plan (COP) and Section 3.18, Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service, and the Resource Parameters as described in Section 3.7, Resource Parameters.
(C)	Block Ancillary Service Offers for a Load Resource – blocks will not be cleared unless the entire quantity block can be awarded.  Because block Ancillary Service Offers cannot set the Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC), a block Ancillary Service Offer may clear below the Ancillary Service Offer price for that block.
(D)	Block DAM Energy Bids, DAM Energy-Only Offers, and PTP Obligation bids – blocks will not be cleared unless the entire time and/or quantity block can be awarded.  Because quantity block bids and offers cannot set the Settlement Point Price, a quantity block bid or offer may clear in a manner inconsistent with the bid or offer price for that block.
(E)	Combined Cycle Generation Resources – The DAM may commit a Combined Cycle Generation Resource in a time period that includes the last hour of the Operating Day only if that Combined Cycle Generation Resource can transition to a shutdown condition in the DAM Operating Day.
(d)	Ancillary Service needs for each Ancillary Service include the needs specified in the Ancillary Service Plan that are not part of the Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity and that must be met from available DAM Ancillary Service Offers while co-optimizing with DAM Energy Offers.  ERCOT may not buy more of one Ancillary Service in place of the quantity of a different service.  See Section 4.5.2, Ancillary Service Insufficiency, for what happens if insufficient Ancillary Service Offers are received in the DAM. 
[NPRR1008, NPRR1014, and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1188:]
(4)	The DAM uses a multi-hour mixed integer programming algorithm to maximize bid-based revenues, including revenues based on Ancillary Service Demand Curves (ASDCs), minus the offer-based costs over the Operating Day, subject to security and other constraints.  
(a)	The bid-based revenues include revenues from ASDCs, DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, bid portions of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bids. 
(b)	The offer-based costs include costs from the Startup Offer, Minimum Energy Offer, and Energy Offer Curve of any Resource that submitted a Three-Part Supply Offer, DAM Energy-Only Offers, offer portions of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, Ancillary Service Only Offers, and Ancillary Service Offers.  
(c)	Security constraints specified to prevent DAM solutions that would overload the elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid include the following: 
(i)	Transmission constraints – transfer limits on energy flows through the ERCOT Transmission Grid, e.g., thermal or stability limits.  These limits must be satisfied by the intact network and for certain specified contingencies.  These constraints may represent:
(A)	Thermal constraints – protect Transmission Facilities against thermal overload.
(B)	Generic constraints – protect the ERCOT Transmission Grid against transient instability, dynamic stability or voltage collapse.
(C)	Power flow constraints – the energy balance at required Electrical Buses in the ERCOT Transmission Grid must be maintained.  
(ii)	Resource constraints – the physical and security limits on Resources that submit Three-Part Supply Offers or Energy Bid/Offer Curves:
(A)	Resource output constraints – the Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and High Sustained Limit (HSL) of each Resource; and 
(B)	Resource operational constraints – includes minimum run time, minimum down time, and configuration constraints.
(iii)	Other constraints – 
(A)	Linked offers – the DAM may not select any one part of that Resource capacity to provide more than one Ancillary Service or to provide both energy and an Ancillary Service in the same Operating Hour.  The DAM may, however, select part of that Resource capacity to provide one Ancillary Service and another part of that capacity to provide a different Ancillary Service or energy in the same Operating Hour, provided that linked Energy and Off-Line Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers are not awarded in the same Operating Hour.
(B)	The sum of the awarded Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer capacities for each Resource must be within the Resource limits specified in the Current Operating Plan (COP) and Section 3.18, Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service, and the Resource Parameters as described in Section 3.7, Resource Parameters.
(C)	Block Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers for a Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) – blocks will not be cleared unless the entire quantity block can be awarded.  Because block Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers cannot set the Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC), a block Ancillary Service Offer may clear below the Ancillary Service Offer price for that block.
(D)	Block DAM Energy Bids, DAM Energy-Only Offers, and PTP Obligation bids – blocks will not be cleared unless the entire time and/or quantity block can be awarded.  Because quantity block bids and offers cannot set the Settlement Point Price, a quantity block bid or offer may clear in a manner inconsistent with the bid or offer price for that block.
(E)	Combined Cycle Generation Resources – The DAM may commit a Combined Cycle Generation Resource in a time period that includes the last hour of the Operating Day only if that Combined Cycle Generation Resource can transition to a shutdown condition in the DAM Operating Day.
(F)	Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) – The energy cleared for an ESR may be negative, indicating purchase of energy, or positive, indicating sale of energy. 
(d)	Ancillary Service needs will be reflected in ASDCs for each Ancillary Service.  Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities will first be used to meet the ASDCs, and the remaining Ancillary Service needs are met from Ancillary Service Offers, as long as the costs do not exceed the ASDC value.  ERCOT may not buy more of one Ancillary Service in place of the quantity of a different service.
(5)	ERCOT shall determine the appropriate Load distribution factors to allocate offers, bids, and source and sink of CRRs at a Load Zone across the energized power flow buses that are modeled with Load in that Load Zone.  The non-Private Use Network Load distribution factors are based on historical State Estimator hourly distribution using a proxy day methodology representing anticipated weather conditions.  The Private Use Network Load distribution factors are based on an estimated Load value considering historical net consumption at all Private Use Networks.  If ERCOT decides, in its sole discretion, to change the Load distribution factors for reasons such as anticipated weather events or holidays, ERCOT shall select a State Estimator hourly distribution from a proxy day reasonably reflecting the anticipated Load in the Operating Day.  ERCOT may also modify the Load distribution factors to account for predicted differences in network topology between the proxy day and Operating Day.  ERCOT shall develop a methodology, subject to Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) approval, to describe the modification of the proxy day bus-load distribution for this purpose.
[NPRR1004:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	ERCOT shall determine the appropriate Load distribution factors to allocate offers, bids, and source and sink of PTP Obligations at a Load Zone across the energized power flow buses that are modeled with Load in that Load Zone.  ERCOT shall derive DAM Load distribution factors with the set of Load distribution factors constructed in accordance with the ERCOT Load distribution factor methodology specified in paragraph (c) of Section 3.12, Load Forecasting.  In the event the Load distribution factors are not available, the Load distribution factors for the most recent preceding Operating Day will be used.
(6)	ERCOT shall allocate offers, bids, and source and sink of CRRs at a Hub using the distribution factors specified in the definition of that Hub in Section 3.5.2, Hub Definitions. 
(7)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the DAM may be eligible for Make-Whole Payment of the Startup Offer and Minimum Energy Offer submitted by the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing the Resource under Section 4.6, DAM Settlement. 
(8)	The DAM Settlement is based on hourly MW awards and on Day-Ahead hourly Settlement Point Prices.  All PTP Options settled in the DAM are settled based on the Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices (DASPPs).  ERCOT shall assign a Locational Marginal Price (LMP) to de-energized Electrical Buses for use in the calculation of the DASPPs by using heuristic rules applied in the following order:
(a)	Use an appropriate LMP predetermined by ERCOT as applicable to a specific Electrical Bus; or if not so specified
(b)	Use the following rules in order:
(i)	Use average LMP for Electrical Buses within the same station having the same voltage level as the de-energized Electrical Bus, if any exist.
(ii)	Use average LMP for all Electrical Buses within the same station, if any exist.
(iii)	Use System Lambda.
(9)	The Day-Ahead MCPC for each hour for each Ancillary Service is the Shadow Price for that Ancillary Service for the hour as determined by the DAM algorithm.  
(10)	Day-Ahead MCPCs shall not exceed the System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP).  Ancillary Service Offers higher than corresponding Ancillary Service penalty factors, as defined in Appendix 2, Day-Ahead Market Optimization Control Parameters, of Section 22, Attachment P, Methodology for Setting Maximum Shadow Prices for Network and Power Balance Constraints, will not be awarded.
[NPRR1080:  Delete paragraph (10) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly.]
(11)	If the Day-Ahead MCPC cannot be calculated by ERCOT, the Day-Ahead MCPC for the particular Ancillary Service is equal to the Day-Ahead MCPC for that Ancillary Service in the same Settlement Interval of the preceding Operating Day.
[NPRR1008 and NPR1014:  Delete paragraph (11) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly.]
(12)	If the DASPPs cannot be calculated by ERCOT, all CRRs shall be settled based on Real-Time prices.  Settlements for all CRRs shall be reflected on the Real-Time Settlement Statement.
(13)	Constraints can exist between the generator’s Resource Connectivity Node and the Resource Node, in which case the awarded quantity of energy may be inconsistent with the clearing price when the constraint between the Resource Connectivity Node and the Resource Node is binding.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace paragraph (13) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(13)	Constraints can exist between a Resource’s Resource Connectivity Node and its Resource Node, in which case the awarded quantity of energy may be inconsistent with the clearing price when the constraint between the Resource Connectivity Node and the Resource Node is binding.
(14)	PTP Obligation bids shall not be awarded where the DAM clearing price for the PTP Obligation is greater than the PTP Obligation bid price plus $0.01/MW per hour.
4.5.2	Ancillary Service Insufficiency
(1)	ERCOT shall determine if there is an insufficiency in Ancillary Service Offers.  If ERCOT receives insufficient Ancillary Service Offers in the DAM to procure one or more required Ancillary Service such that the Ancillary Service Plan is deficient and system security and reliability is threatened: 
(a)	ERCOT shall declare an Ancillary Service insufficiency and issue a Watch under Section 6.5.9.3.3, Watch.
(b)	ERCOT shall request additional Ancillary Service Offers.  
(i)	A QSE may resubmit an offer for an Ancillary Service that it submitted before the Watch for the same Ancillary Service quantity block, but the resubmitted offer must meet the following criteria to be considered a valid offer:
(A)	The offer quantity may not be less than the offer quantity submitted before the Watch, unless the resubmitted offer quantity is priced lower than the offer quantity submitted before the Watch; and
(B)	For the amount of the offer quantity that is equal to or greater than the offer quantity submitted before the Watch, the offer must be priced equal to or less than the price of the offer submitted before the Watch. 
(ii)	A QSE may submit an offer for an additional Ancillary Service quantity block that was not submitted before the Watch.  The incremental amount of the offer may be submitted at a price subject to the offer cap, provided the offer quantity of the Ancillary Service block from paragraph (i) above is not less than the offer quantity submitted before the Watch.
(iii)	A QSE that did not submit an Ancillary Service Offer prior to the Watch may submit a new Ancillary Service Offer at a price subject to the offer cap.
(c)	ERCOT shall not begin executing the DAM sooner than 30 minutes after issuing the Watch.  If the additional Ancillary Service Offers are still insufficient to supply the Ancillary Service required in the Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Plan, then ERCOT shall run the DAM by reducing the Ancillary Service Plan quantities only for purposes of the DAM by the amount of insufficiency. 
(d)	When ERCOT must reduce the Ancillary Service Plan for purposes of the DAM due to insufficient Ancillary Service Offers, ERCOT shall preserve the Ancillary Service Plan in the DAM in the following order of priority:
(i)	Regulation Up (Reg-Up);
(ii)	Regulation Down (Reg-Down);
(iii)	Responsive Reserve (RRS);
(iv) 	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS); and
(v)	Non-Spin.
(2)	ERCOT shall procure the difference in capacity between the Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Plan and the DAM-reduced Ancillary Service Plan amounts using the Supplemental Ancillary Service Market (SASM) process in accordance with Section 6.4.9.2.2, SASM Clearing Process.  If the SASM process is insufficient, then ERCOT may acquire the insufficient amount of Ancillary Services from Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) Resources that are qualified to provide the needed Ancillary Service.  ERCOT may also issue a Watch and procure Ancillary Services in accordance with Section 6.5.9.3.3. 
[NPRR1008:  Delete Section 4.5.2 above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
4.5.3	Communicating DAM Results
(1)	As soon as practicable, but no later than 1330 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall notify the parties to each cleared DAM transaction (e.g., the buyer and the seller) of the results of the DAM as follows: 
(a)	Awarded Ancillary Service Offers, specifying Resource, MW, Ancillary Service type, and price, for each hour of the awarded offer;
(b)	Awarded energy offers from Three-Part Supply Offers and from DAM Energy-Only Offers, specifying Resource (except for DAM Energy-Only Offers), MWh, Settlement Point, and Settlement Point Price, for each hour of the awarded offer;
(c)	Awarded DAM Energy Bids, specifying MWh, Settlement Point, and Settlement Point Price for each hour of the awarded bid; and
(d)	Awarded PTP Obligation Bids, number of PTP Obligations in MW, source and sink Settlement Points, and price for each Settlement Interval of the awarded bid.
[NPRR1008, NPRR1014, and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1188:]
(1)	As soon as practicable, but no later than 1330 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall notify the parties to each cleared DAM transaction (e.g., the buyer and the seller) of the results of the DAM as follows: 
(a)	Awarded Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers, specifying Resource, MW, Ancillary Service type, and price, for each hour of the awarded offer;
(b)	Awarded Ancillary Service Only Offers, specifying MW, Ancillary Service type, and price, for each hour of the awarded offer;
(c)	Awarded energy offers from Three-Part Supply Offers and from DAM Energy-Only Offers, specifying Resource (except for DAM Energy-Only Offers), MWh, Settlement Point, and Settlement Point Price, for each hour of the awarded offer;
(d)	Awarded DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves, specifying MWh, Settlement Point, and Settlement Point Price for each hour of the awarded bid; 
(e)	Awarded Energy Bid/Offer Curves, specifying Resource, MWh, Settlement Point, and Settlement Point Price, for each hour of the awarded bid/offer; and
(f)	Awarded PTP Obligation Bids, number of PTP Obligations in MW, source and sink Settlement Points, and price for each Settlement Interval of the awarded bid.
(2)	As soon as practicable, but no later than 1330, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the hourly:
(a)	Day-Ahead MCPC for each type of Ancillary Service for each hour of the Operating Day;
(b)	DASPPs for each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day; 
(c)	Day-Ahead hourly LMPs for each Electrical Bus for each hour of the Operating Day;
(d)	Shadow Prices for every binding constraint for each hour of the Operating Day; 
(e)	Quantity of total Ancillary Service Offers received in the DAM, in MW by Ancillary Service type for each hour of the Operating Day;
(f)	Energy bought in the DAM consisting of the following:
(i)	The total quantity of awarded DAM Energy Bids (in MWh) bought in the DAM at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day; and
(ii)	The total quantity of awarded PTP Obligation Bids (in MWh) cleared in the DAM that sink at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day. 
(g)	Energy sold in the DAM consisting of the following:
(i)	The total quantity of awarded DAM Energy Offers (in MWh), from Three-Part Supply Offers and DAM Energy Only Offers, bought in the DAM at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day; and
(ii)	The total quantity of awarded PTP Obligation Bids (in MWh) cleared in the DAM that source at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day. 
(h)	Aggregated Ancillary Service Offer Curve of all Ancillary Service Offers for each type of Ancillary Service for each hour of the Operating Day; 
(i)	Electrically Similar Settlement Points used during the DAM clearing process; and 
(j)	Settlement Points that were de-energized in the base case; and
(k)	System Lambda.
[NPRR1008, NPRR1014, and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1188:]
(2)	As soon as practicable, but no later than 1330, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the hourly:
(a)	Day-Ahead MCPC for each type of Ancillary Service for each hour of the Operating Day;
(b)	DASPPs for each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day; 
(c)	Day-Ahead hourly LMPs for each Electrical Bus for each hour of the Operating Day;
(d)	Shadow Prices for every binding constraint for each hour of the Operating Day; 
(e)	Energy bought in the DAM consisting of the following:
(i)	The total quantity of awarded DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves (in MWh) bought in the DAM at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day;
(ii)	The total quantity of awarded PTP Obligation Bids (in MWh) cleared in the DAM that sink at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day; and
(iii)	The total absolute value quantity of awards to bid portions of Energy Bid/Offer Curves (in MWh) cleared in the DAM at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day.
(f)	Energy sold in the DAM consisting of the following:
(i)	The total quantity of awarded DAM Energy Offers (in MWh), from Three-Part Supply Offers and DAM Energy Only Offers, bought in the DAM at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day;
(ii)	The total quantity of awarded PTP Obligation Bids (in MWh) cleared in the DAM that source at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day; and
(iii)	The total quantity of awards to offer portions of Energy Bid/Offer Curves (in MWh) cleared in the DAM at each Settlement Point for each hour of the Operating Day.
(g)	Aggregated Ancillary Service Offer Curve of all Ancillary Service Offers (including both Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers and Ancillary Service Only Offers) for each type of Ancillary Service for each hour of the Operating Day; 
(h)	Electrically Similar Settlement Points used during the DAM clearing process; 
(i)	Settlement Points that were de-energized in the base case; 
(j)	System Lambda; and
(k) 	Ancillary Services sold in the DAM consisting of the total quantity of awarded Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers and Ancillary Service Only Offers, for each Ancillary Service for each hour of the Operating Day.
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor Day-Ahead MCPCs and Day-Ahead hourly LMPs for errors and if there are conditions that cause the price to be questionable, ERCOT shall notify all Market Participants that the DAM prices are under investigation as soon as practicable.
(4)	ERCOT shall correct prices for an Operating Day when a market solution is determined to be invalid or invalid prices are identified in an otherwise valid market solution, accurate prices can be determined, and the impact of the price correction is significant.  The following are some reasons that may cause an invalid market solution or invalid prices in a valid market solution.
(a)	Data Input error:  Missing, incomplete, or incorrect versions of one or more data elements input to the DAM application may result in an invalid market solution and/or prices.
(b)	Software error:  Pricing errors may occur due to software implementation errors in DAM pre-processing, DAM clearing process, and/or DAM post processing.
(c)	Inconsistency with these Protocols or the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules:  Pricing errors may occur when specific circumstances result in prices that are in conflict with such Protocol language or the PUCT Substantive Rules.
(5)	For purposes of a price correction performed prior to 1000 on the second Business Day after the Operating Day, the impact of a price correction is considered significant, as that term is used in paragraph (4) above, for the Operating Day when:
(a)	The absolute value change to any single DAM Settlement Point Price at a Resource Node or Day-Ahead MCPC is greater than $0.05/MWh;
(b)       The price correction would require ERCOT to change more than ten DAM Settlement Point Prices and Day-Ahead MCPCs; or
(c)       The absolute value change to any DAM Settlement Point Price at a Load Zone or Hub is greater than $0.02/MWh.
(6)	All DAM LMPs, MCPCs, and Settlement Point Prices are final at 1000 of the second Business Day after the Operating Day.
(a)	However, after DAM LMPs, MCPCs, and Settlement Point Prices are final, if ERCOT determines that prices qualify for a correction pursuant to paragraph (4) above and that ERCOT will seek ERCOT Board review of such prices, it shall notify Market Participants and describe the need for such correction as soon as practicable but no later than 30 days after the Operating Day.  Failure to notify Market Participants within this timeline precludes the ERCOT Board from reviewing such prices.  However, nothing in this section shall be understood to limit or otherwise inhibit any of the following:
(i)	ERCOT’s duty to inform the PUCT of potential or actual violations of the ERCOT Protocols or PUCT Rules and its right to request that the PUCT authorize correction of any prices that may have been affected by such potential or actual violations; 
(ii)	The PUCT’s authority to order price corrections when permitted to do so under other law; or
(iii)	ERCOT’s authority to grant relief to a Market Participant pursuant to the timelines specified in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure.
(b)	Before seeking ERCOT Board review of prices, ERCOT will determine if the impact of the price correction is significant, as that term is used in paragraph (4) above, by calculating the potential changes to the DAM Settlement Statement(s) of any Counter-Party on the given Operating Day.  ERCOT shall seek ERCOT Board review of prices if the change in DAM Settlement Statement(s) would result in the absolute value impact to any single Counter-Party, based on the sum of all original DAM Settlement Statement amounts of Market Participants assigned to the Counter-Party, to be greater than:
(i)	2% and also greater than $20,000; or
(ii)	20% and also greater than $2,000. 
(c)	The ERCOT Board may review and change DAM LMPs, MCPCs, or Settlement Point Prices if ERCOT gave timely notice to Market Participants and the ERCOT Board finds that such prices should be corrected for an Operating Day.
(d)	In review of DAM LMPs, MCPCs, or Settlement Point Prices, the ERCOT Board may rely on the same reasons identified in paragraph (4) above to find that the prices should be corrected for an Operating Day.
(7)	As soon as practicable, but no later than 1330, ERCOT shall make available the Day-Ahead Shift Factors for binding constraints in the DAM and post to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(7)	As soon as practicable, but no later than 1330, ERCOT shall make available the Day-Ahead Shift Factors for binding constraints in the DAM and post to the ERCOT website.
4.6	DAM Settlement
4.6.1	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices
(1)	The Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price (DASPP) calculations are described in this Section for Resource Nodes, Load Zones, Hubs, and logical Resource Nodes.
4.6.1.1	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Resource Nodes
(1)	The DASPP for a Resource Node Settlement Point for an hour is the Locational Marginal Price (LMP) at that Resource Node for that hour as calculated in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) process.  
4.6.1.2	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Load Zones
(1)	The DASPP for a Load Zone Settlement Point for an hour is calculated as follows:
For all Load Zones except Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load Zones:
DASPP	=	DASL - █(Σ@c)(DALZSF c * DASP c)
Where:
DALZSF c	=	█(Σ@pb) (DADF pb, c * DASF pb, c)
DADF pb, c	=	DAL pb, c / (█(Σ@pb) DAL pb, c)
For a DC Tie Load Zone:
DASPP	=	DALMP b
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point PriceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the Load Zone, for the hour.
DALMP b	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Locational Marginal Price per busThe DAM LMP at Electrical Bus b for the hour. 
DASL	$/MWh	Day-Ahead System LambdaThe DAM Shadow Price for the system power balance constraint for the hour.
DASP c	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Shadow Price for a binding transmission constraintThe DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
DALZSF c	none	Day-Ahead Shift factor of the Load Zone The DAM aggregated Shift Factor of a Load Zone for the constraint c for the hour. 
DASF pb, ,c	none	Day-Ahead Shift factor of the power flow busThe DAM Shift Factor of a power flow bus pb that is a component of the Load Zone for the constraint c for the hour. 
DADF pb, c	none	Day-Ahead Distribution factor per power flow bus for a constraintThe Load distribution factor for power flow bus pb in the Load Zone for the constraint c for the hour.  
DAL pb, c	MW	Day-Ahead Load at power flow bus for a constraintThe DAM distributed load for power flow bus pb in the Load Zone for the constraint c for the hour.
b	none	An Electrical Bus that is assigned to the DC Tie Load Zone.
pb	none	An energized power flow bus that is assigned to the Load Zone for the constraint c.
c	None	A DAM binding transmission constraint for the hour caused by either base case or a contingency.
4.6.1.3	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Hubs
(1)	The DASPP for a Settlement Point at a Hub is determined according to the methodology included in the definition of that Hub in Section 3.5, Hubs. 
4.6.1.4	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices at the Logical Resource Node for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource
(1)	ERCOT shall calculate the DASPP for each hour at the logical Resource Node for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource as follows:
(a)	The DASPP at a logical Resource Node shall be the sum of a weight factor as determined in paragraph (b) below times the Day-Ahead LMP at each of the Resource Nodes of the generation units registered in the Combined Cycle Train registration for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource designated in the Three-Part Supply Offer:
Where:
	DASPP = ∑CCGR_PhyR DALMP CCGR_PhyR * DACCGRWF CCGR_PhyR
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DASPP	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at a logical Resource Node for a Combined Cycle Train—The DAM Settlement Point Price at the logical Resource Node for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource for the hour.
DALMP CCGR_PhyR	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Locational Marginal Price at a Resource Node for a generation unit registered in the Combined Cycle Generation Resource—The Day-Ahead LMP at the Resource Node of a generation unit designated in the Combined Cycle Train registration for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
DACCGRWF CCGR_PhyR	none	Day-Ahead Combined Cycle Generation Resource Weighting Factor—The DAM Combined Cycle Generation Resource weighting factor for a generation unit designated in a Combined Cycle Train registration for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
CCGR_PhyR	none	A generation unit designated in a Combine Cycle Train for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
(b)	The weight factor for each generation unit designated in the Combined Cycle Train registration for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource shall be the generation unit’s High Reasonability Limit (HRL), as specified in the Resource Registration data provided to ERCOT pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, divided by the total of all HRL values for the generation units designated in the Combined Cycle Generation Resource Registration data.
Where:
DACCGRWF CCGR_PhyR = HRL CCGR_PhyR / ∑CCGR_PhyR HRL CCGR_PhyR
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DACCGRWF CCGR_PhyR	none	Day-Ahead Combined Cycle Generation Resource Weighting Factor—The DAM Combined Cycle Generation Resource weighting factor for a generation unit designated in a Combined Cycle Train registration for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
HRL CCGR_PhyR	MW	High Reasonability Limit—The HRL as specified in the ERCOT-approved Resource Registration data for a generation unit designated in a Combined Cycle Train registration for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
CCGR_PhyR	none	A generation unit designated in a Combined Cycle Train for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
4.6.2	Day-Ahead Energy and Make-Whole Settlement
4.6.2.1	Day-Ahead Energy Payment
(1)	The Day-Ahead Energy Payment is made for all cleared offers to sell energy in the DAM, whether through Three-Part Supply Offers or DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves.  The payment to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for each Settlement Point for a given hour of the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
DAESAMT q, p	=	(-1) * DASPP p * DAES q, p
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAESAMT q, p	$	Day-Ahead Energy Sale Amount per QSE per Settlement PointThe payment to QSE q for the cleared energy offers at Settlement Point p for the hour.
DASPP p	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price per Settlement PointThe DAM SPP at Settlement Point p for the hour.
DAES q, p	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale per QSE per Settlement PointThe total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s cleared Three-Part Supply Offers in the DAM and cleared DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves at Settlement Point p, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.

[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	The Day-Ahead Energy Payment is made for all cleared offers to sell energy in the DAM, whether through Three-Part Supply Offers, DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, or cleared sales from the offer portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves.  The payment to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for each Settlement Point for a given hour of the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
DAESAMT q, p	=	(-1) * DASPP p * DAES q, p
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAESAMT q, p	$	Day-Ahead Energy Sale Amount per QSE per Settlement PointThe payment to QSE q for the cleared energy offers at Settlement Point p for the hour.
DASPP p	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price per Settlement PointThe DAM SPP at Settlement Point p for the hour.
DAES q, p	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale per QSE per Settlement PointThe total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s cleared Three-Part Supply Offers in the DAM, cleared DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, and cleared sales from the offer portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves at Settlement Point p, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.

(2)	The total of the Day-Ahead Energy Payments to each QSE for the hour is calculated as follows:
DAESAMTQSETOT q	=	 DAESAMT q, p
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAESAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Energy Sale Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total of the payments to QSE q for its cleared energy offers at all Settlement Points for the hour.
DAESAMT q, p	$	Day-Ahead Energy Sale Amount per QSE per Settlement PointThe payment to QSE q for the cleared energy offers at Settlement Point p for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
4.6.2.2	Day-Ahead Energy Charge
(1)	The Day-Ahead Energy Charge is made for all cleared DAM Energy Bids.  This charge to each QSE for each Settlement Point for a given hour of the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
DAEPAMT q, p 	=	DASPP p * DAEP q, p
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAEPAMT q, p	$	Day-Ahead Energy Charge per QSE per Settlement PointThe charge to QSE q for all its cleared DAM Energy Bids at Settlement Point p for the hour.
DASPP p	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price per Settlement PointThe DAM SPP at Settlement Point p for the hour. 
DAEP q, p	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per QSE per Settlement PointThe total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s cleared DAM Energy Bids at Settlement Point p for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.

[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	The Day-Ahead Energy Charge is made for all DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, and the bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, cleared in the DAM.  This charge to each QSE for each Settlement Point for a given hour of the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
DAEPAMT q, p 	=	DASPP p * DAEP q, p
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAEPAMT q, p	$	Day-Ahead Energy Charge per QSE per Settlement PointThe charge to QSE q for all its cleared energy bids at Settlement Point p for the hour.
DASPP p	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price per Settlement PointThe DAM SPP at Settlement Point p for the hour. 
DAEP q, p	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per QSE per Settlement PointThe total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, and  the bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, cleared in the DAM, at Settlement Point p for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.

(2)	The total of the Day-Ahead Energy Charges to each QSE for the hour is calculated as follows:
DAEPAMTQSETOT q	=	 DAEPAMT q, p
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAEPAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total of the charges to QSE q for its cleared DAM Energy Bids at all Settlement Points for the hour.
DAEPAMT q, p	$	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount per QSE per Settlement PointThe charge to QSE q for its cleared DAM Energy Bids at Settlement Point p for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.

[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	The total of the Day-Ahead Energy Charges to each QSE for the hour is calculated as follows:
DAEPAMTQSETOT q	=	 DAEPAMT q, p
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAEPAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total of the charges to QSE q for its cleared energy bids at all Settlement Points for the hour.
DAEPAMT q, p	$	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount per QSE per Settlement PointThe charge to QSE q for its DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, and the bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, cleared in the DAM, at Settlement Point p for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.

4.6.2.3	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Settlements
(1)	A QSE that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the DAM is eligible for a Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment startup cost compensation, if, for the Resource associated with the offer:  
(a)	The generator’s breakers were open, as indicated by a telemetered Resource status of Off-Line, for at least five minutes during the Adjustment Period for the beginning of the DAM commitment; 
(b)	The generator’s breakers were closed, as indicated by a telemetered Resource status of On-Line, for at least one minute during the DAM commitment period; and 
(c)	The breaker open-close sequence, as indicated by the On-Line/Off-Line sequence from the telemetered Resource status, for which the QSE is eligible for startup cost compensation in the DAM or Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) for the previous Operating Day does not qualify in meeting the criteria in items (a) and (b) above. 
(d)	The breaker open-close sequence for which the QSE is eligible for startup cost compensation in an earlier DAM commitment period within the same Operating Day does not qualify in meeting the criteria in items (a) and (b) above.   
(2)	Notwithstanding the eligibility criteria described in paragraph (1) above, a Resource will not be eligible for Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment Startup Cost compensation if the Resource was considered by the DAM as not having a cost to start due to the DAM commitment period being contiguous with a self-committed hour, as described in   Section 4.4.9.1, Three-Part Supply Offers.
(3)	A QSE that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the DAM is eligible for Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment energy cost compensation in a DAM-committed Operating Hour, if, for the Resource associated with the offer the generator’s breakers were closed, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of On-Line, for at least one minute during the DAM-committed Operating Hour.
(4)	The Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment guarantees the QSE that the total payment received from the DAM for a DAM-committed Resource is not less than the total cost calculated based on the Startup Cap, the Minimum Energy Cap, and the Energy Offer Curve capped by the Energy Offer Curve Cap defined under Section 4.4.9.3.3, Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps.
(5)	If a Generation Resource is eligible for startup or energy cost compensation in the Day-Ahead Make-Whole payment, then Ancillary Service revenue from the hours committed in the DAM will be included in its make-whole calculation for that Resource. 
(6)	For purposes of this Section 4.6.2.3, the telemetered Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as Off-Line.
[NPRR1014:  Insert paragraph (7) below upon system implementation:]
(7)	An Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is not eligible for Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment.
4.6.2.3.1	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment
(1)	ERCOT shall pay the QSE a Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment for an eligible Resource for each Operating Hour in a DAM-commitment period.  
(2)	Any Ancillary Service Offer cleared for the same Operating Hour, QSE, and Generation Resource as a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the DAM shall be included in the calculation of the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment.
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	Any Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offer cleared for the same Operating Hour, QSE, and Generation Resource as a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the DAM shall be included in the calculation of the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment.
(3)	The guaranteed cost, energy revenue, and Ancillary Service revenue calculated for each Combined Cycle Generation Resource are each summed for the Combined Cycle Train, and the the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Amount is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train.
(4)	For an Aggregate Generation Resource (AGR), Startup Cost shall be scaled according to the ratio of the maximum number of its generators online during a contiguous block of DAM-committed Intervals, as indicated by telemetry, compared to the total number of generators registered to the AGR and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.
(5)	The Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment to each QSE for each DAM-committed Generation Resource is calculated as follows:
DAMWAMT q, p, r, h	=	(-1) * Max (0, DAMGCOST q, p, r +  DAEREV q, p, r, h +  DAASREV q, r, h) * DAESR q, p, r, h / ( DAESR q, p, r, h)
(6)	The Day-Ahead Make-Whole Guaranteed Costs are calculated for each eligible DAM-Committed Generation Resource as follows:
For non-Combined Cycle Trains,
DAMGCOST q, p, r	=	Min(DASUO q, p, r , DASUCAP q, p, r) +  (Min(DAMEO q, p, r, h , DAMECAP p ,q, r ,h )* DALSL q, p, r, h) +  (DAAIEC q, p, r, h * (DAESR q, p, r, h – DALSL q, p, r, h))
For a Resource which is not an AGR, 
If ERCOT has approved verifiable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
Then:		DASUCAP p,q, r 	=	verifiable Startup Costs q, r, s
		DAMECAP p,q,r,h 	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
Otherwise: 	DASUCAP p,q, r 	=  	Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap (RCGSC)
DAMECAP p,q, r, h = 	Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap (RCGMEC)
For an AGR,
DAMGCOST q, p, r	=	DASUPR q, p, r +  (Min(DAMEOq, p, r, h, DAMECAP p,q,r,h) * DALSL q, p, r, h) +  (DAAIEC q, p, r, h * (DAESR q, p, r, h – DALSL q, p, r, h))
Where:       
DASUPR q, p, r		 =	Min(DASUO q, p, r, DASUCAP q, p, r)
If ERCOT has approved verifiable Startup Costs
Then:	DASUCAP q, p, r	=	Maxc(AGRRATIO q, p, r ) * verifiable Startup Costs q, r
Where:	AGRRATIO q, p, r	=	AGRMAXON q, p, r / AGRTOT q, p, r
Otherwise:	DASUCAP q, p, r	=	Maxc(AGGRATIO q,p,r) * RCGSC	
For Combined Cycle Trains,
DAMGCOST q, p, r	=	Min(DASUO q, p, r , DASUCAPq, p, r) +   (Min(DAMEO q, p, r, h , DAMECAP q, p, r,h) * DALSL q, p, r, h) + (Max(0, Min(DASUO afterCCGR , DASUCAPafterCCGR) – Min(DASUO beforeCCGR , DASUCAPbeforeCCGR)) +   (DAAIEC q, p, r, h * (DAESR q, p, r, h – DALSL q, p, r, h))
 (7)	The Day-Ahead Make-Whole Revenue is calculated for each DAM-Committed Generation Resource as follows:
DAEREV q, p, r, h		=	(-1) * DASPP p, h * DAESR q, p, r, h
DAASREV q, r, h 		=	((-1) * MCPCRU DAM, h * PCRUR r, q, DAM, h) 
		+ ((-1) * MCPCRD DAM, h  * PCRDR r, q, DAM, h) 
		+ ((-1) * MCPCECR DAM, h  * PCECRR r, q, DAM, h) 
		+ ((-1) * MCPCNS DAM, h  * PCNSR r, q, DAM, h)  
		+ ((-1) * MCPCRR DAM, h  * PCRRR r, q, DAM, h)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAMWAMT q, p, r, h	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource per hourThe payment to QSE q to make-whole the Startup Cost and energy cost of Resource r committed in the DAM at Resource Node p for the hour h.  When a Combined Cycle Generation Resource is committed in the DAM, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for the DAM-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
DAMGCOST q, p, r	$	Day-Ahead Market Guaranteed Amount per QSE per Settlement Point per ResourceThe sum of the Startup Cost and the operating energy costs of the DAM-committed Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, for the DAM-commitment period.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train. 
DAEREV q, p, r, h	$	Day-Ahead Energy Revenue per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource by hourThe revenue received in the DAM for Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, based on the DAM Settlement Point Price, for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
DAASREV q, r, h	$	Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Revenue per QSE per Resource by hourThe revenue received in the DAM for Resource r represented by QSE q, based on the Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC) for each Ancillary Service in the DAM, for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
DASPP p, h	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price by Settlement Point by hourThe DAM Settlement Point Price at Resource Node p for the hour h.
DAESR q, p, r, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale from Resource per QSE by Settlement Point per Resource by hourThe amount of energy cleared through Three-Part Supply Offers in the DAM for Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
DASUPR q, p, r	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Startup Price per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource—The derived Startup Price for an AGR r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, for the first hour of the DAM-commitment period.
DASUCAP q, p, r,	$/start	Day-Ahead Startup Cap per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource—The amount used for AGR r or Resource r as Startup Costs.  The cap is the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap (RCGSC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific Startup Costs for that Resource, in which case the startup cap is the scaled verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost for the AGR or the verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost for non-AGR Resources.  See Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, for more information on verifiable costs.
DAMECAP p,q,r,h	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Minimum-Energy Cap —The amount used for Resource r for minimum-energy costs.  The minimum cost is the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap (RCGMEC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific minimum energy costs for that Resource, in which case the minimum energy cap is the verifiable unit-specific minimum energy cost.  See Section 5.6.1 for more information on verifiable costs.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGSC	$/Start	Resource Category Generic Startup Cost—The Resource Category Generic Startup Cost cap for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, for the Operating Day.
PCRUR r, q, DAM, h	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up from Resource per Resource per QSE per hour in DAM—The Regulation Up (Reg-Up) capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRU DAM, h	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Reg-Up per hour in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Reg-Up for the hour h.
PCRDR r, q, DAM, h	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down from Resource per Resource per QSE per hour in DAM—The Regulation Down (Reg-Down) capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRD DAM, h	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Reg-Down per hour in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Reg-Down for the hour h.
PCRRR r, q, DAM, h	MW	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve from Resource per Resource per QSE per hour in DAM—The Responsive Reserve (RRS) capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRR DAM, h	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Responsive Reserve per hour in DAM—The DAM MCPC for RRS for the hour h.
PCECRR r, q, DAM, h	MW	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service from Resource per Resource per QSE per hour in DAM—The ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCECR DAM, h	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service per hour in DAM—The DAM MCPC for ECRS for the hour h.

PCNSR r, q, DAM, h	MW	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin from Resource per Resource per QSE per hour in DAM—The Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCNS DAM, h	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Non-Spin per hour in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Non-Spin for the hour h.
[NPRR1008:  Replace the description above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Non-Spin per hour—The DAM MCPC for Non-Spin for the hour h.

DASUO q, p, r	$/start	Day-Ahead Startup Offer per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource—The Startup Offer included in the Three-Part Supply Offer submitted in the DAM associated with Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, for the first hour of the DAM-commitment period.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
AGRRATIO q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Ratio per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—A value which represents the ratio of the maximum number of generators online in an hour, as indicated by telemetry, compared to the total number of generators registered to the AGR and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.  The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
AGRMAXON q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Maximum Online per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—The maximum number of generators online during an hour, as indicated by telemetry. The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
AGRTOT q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Total per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—The total number of generators registered to the AGR and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.  The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
DAMEO q, p, r, h	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Minimum-Energy Offer per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource per hour—The Minimum-Energy Offer included in the Three-Part Supply Offer submitted in the DAM associated with Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
DALSL q, p, r, h	MW	Day-Ahead Low Sustained Limit per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource per hourThe Low Sustained Limit (LSL) of Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, for the hour h as seen in the 1000 Day-Ahead snapshot.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
DAAIEC q, p, r h	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Average Incremental Energy Cost per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource per hourThe average incremental energy cost, calculated according to the Energy Offer Curve capped by the generic energy price, for the output levels between the DAESR and the LSL of Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1216:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Day-Ahead Average Incremental Energy Cost per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource per hourThe average incremental energy cost, calculated according to the Energy Offer Curve capped by the generic energy price and the SWCAP used in the DAM Clearing, for the output levels between the DAESR and the LSL of Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.

[NPRR1216:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Day-Ahead Average Incremental Energy Cost per QSE per Settlement Point per Resource per hourThe average incremental energy cost, calculated according to the Energy Offer Curve capped by the generic energy price and the DASWCAP, for the output levels between the DAESR and the LSL of Resource r at Resource Node p represented by QSE q, for the hour h.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.

q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
r	none	A DAM-committed Generation Resource.
h	none	An hour in the DAM-commitment period.
c	none	A contiguous block of DAM-committed hours.
afterCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource to which a Combined Cycle Train transitions.
beforeCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource from which a Combined Cycle Train transitions.
(8)	The calculation of the Day-Ahead Average Incremental Energy Cost for each Resource for each hour is illustrated with the picture below, where Pcap is the Energy Offer Curve Cap.  The method to calculate such cost is described in Section 4.6.5, Calculation of “Average Incremental Energy Cost” (AIEC).
 
(9)	The total of the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payments to each QSE for Generation Resources for a given hour is calculated as follows:
DAMWAMTQSETOT q	=	  DAMWAMT q, p, r
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAMWAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment QSE Total per QSEThe total of the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payments to QSE q for the DAM-committed Generation Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
DAMWAMT q, p, r	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment per QSE per Settlement Point per ResourceThe payment to QSE q to make-whole the Startup Cost and energy cost of Resource r committed in the DAM at Resource Node p for the hour.  When a Combined Cycle Generation Resource is committed in the DAM, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for the DAM-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
r	none	A DAM-committed Generation Resource.

4.6.2.3.2	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge 
(1)	ERCOT shall charge a Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge to each QSE that has one or more cleared DAM Energy Bids and/or Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation Bids.  The Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge for an hour is that QSE’s prorata share of the total amount of Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payments for that hour.  The proration must be based on the ratio of the energy amount of the QSE’s cleared DAM Energy Bids and PTP Obligation Bids to the total energy amount of all QSEs’ cleared DAM Energy Bids and PTP Obligation Bids.  The Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge to each QSE for a given hour is calculated as follows:
	LADAMWAMT q =	(-1) * DAMWAMTTOT * DAERS q
Where:
	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment Total
DAMWAMTTOT	=	 DAMWAMTQSETOT q
	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Ratio Share per QSE

DAERS q	=	DAE q / DAETOT
DAETOT	=	 DAE q
DAE q		=	 DAEP q, p +   RTOBL q, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LADAMWAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole ChargeThe allocated charge to QSE q to make whole all the eligible DAM-committed Resources for the hour.
DAMWAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment TotalThe total of the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payments to all QSEs for all DAM-committed Resources for the hour.
DAMWAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment QSE Total per QSEThe total of the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payments to QSE q for the DAM-committed Generation Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
DAERS q	none	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Ratio Share per QSE The ratio of QSE q’s total amount of energy represented by its cleared DAM Energy Bids and PTP Obligation Bids, to the total amount of energy represented by all QSEs’ cleared DAM Energy Bids and PTP Obligation Bids, for the hour.
DAETOT	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Total—The total amount of energy represented by all cleared DAM Energy Bids and all cleared PTP Obligation Bids for the hour.
DAE q	MW	Day-Ahead Energy per QSE—QSE q’s total amount of energy, represented by its cleared DAM Energy Bids and PTP Obligation Bids, for the hour.
DAEP q, p	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per QSE per Settlement Point—The total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s cleared DAM Energy Bids at the Settlement Point p for the hour.
RTOBL q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time Obligation per QSE per pair of source and sink—The total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s cleared PTP Obligation Bids with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall charge a Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge to each QSE that has one or more DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and/or Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation Bids, cleared in the DAM.  The Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge for an hour is that QSE’s prorata share of the total amount of Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payments for that hour.  The proration must be based on the ratio of the energy amount of the QSE’s DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and PTP Obligation Bids, cleared in the DAM, to the total energy amount of all QSEs’ DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and PTP Obligation Bids, cleared in the DAM.  The Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge to each QSE for a given hour is calculated as follows:
	LADAMWAMT q =	(-1) * DAMWAMTTOT * DAERS q
Where:
	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment Total
DAMWAMTTOT	=	 DAMWAMTQSETOT q
	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Ratio Share per QSE

DAERS q	=	DAE q / DAETOT
DAETOT	=	 DAE q
DAE q		=	 DAEP q, p +   RTOBL q, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LADAMWAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole ChargeThe allocated charge to QSE q to make whole all the eligible DAM-committed Resources for the hour.
DAMWAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment TotalThe total of the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payments to all QSEs for all DAM-committed Resources for the hour.
DAMWAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment QSE Total per QSEThe total of the Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payments to QSE q for the DAM-committed Generation Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
DAERS q	none	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Ratio Share per QSE The ratio of QSE q’s total amount of energy represented by its DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and PTP Obligation Bids, cleared in the DAM, to the total amount of energy represented by all QSEs’ DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and PTP Obligation Bids, cleared in the DAM, for the hour.
DAETOT	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Total—The total amount of energy represented by all DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and all cleared PTP Obligation Bids, cleared in the DAM, for the hour.
DAE q	MW	Day-Ahead Energy per QSE—QSE q’s total amount of energy, represented by its DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and PTP Obligation Bids, cleared in the DAM, for the hour.
DAEP q, p	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per QSE per Settlement Point—The total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid Curves, and bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, cleared in the DAM, at the Settlement Point p for the hour.
RTOBL q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time Obligation per QSE per pair of source and sink—The total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s cleared PTP Obligation Bids with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

4.6.3	Settlement for PTP Obligations Bought in DAM	
(1)	ERCOT shall pay or charge a QSE for a cleared PTP Obligation bid the difference in the DAM Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  The charge or payment to each QSE for a given Operating Hour of its cleared PTP Obligation bids with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points is calculated as follows:
DARTOBLAMT q, (j, k)	=	DAOBLPR (j, k) * RTOBL q, (j, k)
Where:
DAOBLPR (j, k)	=	DASPP k – DASPP j
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARTOBLAMT q, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation Amount per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe charge or payment to QSE q for a PTP Obligation bid cleared in the DAM with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DAOBLPR (j, k)	$/MWh 	Day-Ahead Obligation Price per pair of source and sinkThe DAM clearing price of a PTP Obligation bid with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DASPP j	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at sourceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the source Settlement Point j for the hour.
DASPP k	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at sinkThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the sink Settlement Point k for the hour.
RTOBL q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time Obligation per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe total MW of QSE q’s PTP Obligation bids cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
(2)	The net total charge or payment to the QSE for the hour of all its cleared PTP Obligation bids is calculated as follows:
DARTOBLAMTQSETOT q		=	  DARTOBLAMT q, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARTOBLAMTQSETOTq	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation Amount QSE Total per QSEThe net total charge or payment to QSE q for all its PTP Obligation bids cleared in the DAM for the hour.
DARTOBLAMT q, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation Amount per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe charge or payment to QSE q for a PTP Obligation bids cleared in the DAM with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
(3)	ERCOT shall charge a QSE for a cleared PTP Obligation bid with Links to an Option the positive difference in the DASPP between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  The charge to each QSE for a given Operating Hour of its cleared PTP Obligation bid with Links to an Option with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points is calculated as follows:
DARTOBLLOAMT q, (j, k)	= Max (0, DAOBLPR (j, k)) * RTOBLLO q, (j, k)
Where:
RTOBLLO q, (j, k)	=   OBLLOCRR q, (j, k), crrid, crrofferid
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARTOBLLOAMT q, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option Amount per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe charge to QSE q for a PTP Obligation bid with Links to an Option cleared in the DAM with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DAOBLPR (j, k)	$/MWh 	Day-Ahead Obligation Price per pair of source and sinkThe DAM clearing price of a PTP Obligation bid with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
RTOBLLO q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time PTP Obligation with Links to an Option per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe total MW of QSE q’s PTP Obligation bids with Links to an Option cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
OBLLOCRR q, (j, k), crrid, crrofferid	MW	PTP Obligation with Links to an Option per QSE per pair of source and sink, CRRID and CRR Offer ID of the linked OptionThe total MW of QSE q’s PTP Obligation bids with Links to an Option cleared in the DAM for the source j and the sink k, for the hour and CRRID and CRROFFERID of the linked PTP Option.
crrid	none	A Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Option identification code.
crrofferid	none	A CRR Offer identification code.
q	none	A QSE.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
(4)	The net total charge to the QSE for the hour of all its cleared PTP Obligation bids with Links to an Option is calculated as follows:
DARTOBLLOAMTQSETOT q	=	  DARTOBLLOAMT q, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARTOBLLOAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option Amount QSE Total per QSEThe net total charge to QSE q for all its PTP Obligation bids with Links to an Option cleared in the DAM for the hour.
DARTOBLLOAMT q, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation with Links to Option Amount per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe charge to QSE q for a PTP Obligation bid with Links to an Option cleared in the DAM with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
4.6.4	Settlement of Ancillary Services Procured in the DAM
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE providing Ancillary Services procured in the DAM the amount of Ancillary Service Capacity in MW procured from the QSE multiplied by the MCPC for the Ancillary Service provided, expressed in $/MW.  Each QSE shall pay for its share of each Ancillary Service procured by ERCOT in the DAM.
4.6.4.1	Payments for Ancillary Services Procured in the DAM  
4.6.4.1.1	Regulation Up Service Payment
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Offers to provide Reg-Up to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCRUAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCRU DAM * PCRU q
Where:
PCRU q	=			 PCRUR r, q, DAM
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRUAMT q 	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Reg-Up payment for QSE q for the hour.
PCRU q 	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up per QSE in DAM—The total Reg-Up Service capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCRUR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The Reg-Up capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRU DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Reg-Up in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Reg-Up for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers to provide Reg-Up to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCRUAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCRU DAM * PCRU q
Where:
PCRU q  	=	 PCRUR r, q, DAM
(2)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Only Offers to provide Reg-Up to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
	DAPCRUOAMT q = (-1) * MCPCRU DAM * DARUOAWD q 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRUAMT q 	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Reg-Up payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCRUOAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Reg-Up Only Amount per QSE—The payment to QSE q for all Reg-Up only awards in DAM for the hour.
PCRU q 	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up per QSE in DAM—The total Reg-Up Service capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCRUR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The Reg-Up capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRU DAM	$/MW 	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Reg-Up in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Reg-Up for the hour.
DARUOAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Only Award per QSE —The Reg-Up Only capacity quantity awarded in DAM to QSE q for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.1.2	Regulation Down Service Payment
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Offers to provide Reg-Down to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCRDAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCRD DAM * PCRD q
Where:
PCRD q		= PCRDR r, q, DAM
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRDAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Reg-Down payment for QSE q for the hour.
PCRD q	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down per QSE in DAM—The total Reg-Down Service capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCRDR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The Reg-Down capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRD DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Reg-Down in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Reg-Down for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers to provide Reg-Down to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCRDAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCRD DAM * PCRD q
Where:
PCRD q 	 =	 PCRDR r, q, DAM
(2)  	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Only Offers to provide Reg-Down to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
DAPCRDOAMT q  = (-1) * MCPCRD DAM * DARDOAWD q
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRDAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Reg-Down payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCRDOAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Reg-Down Only Amount per QSE— The payment to QSE q for all Reg-Down only awards in DAM for the hour.
PCRD q	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down per QSE in DAM—The total Reg-Down Service capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCRDR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The Reg-Down capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRD DAM	$/MW 	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Reg-Down in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Reg-Down for the hour.
DARDOAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Only Award per QSE —The Reg-Down only capacity quantity awarded in DAM to QSE q for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.1.3	Responsive Reserve Payment
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Offers to provide RRS to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCRRAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCRR DAM * PCRR q
Where:
PCRR q	=			 PCRRR r, q, DAM
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRRAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM RRS payment for QSE q for the hour.
PCRR q 	MW	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve per QSE in DAM—The total RRS capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCRRR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The RRS capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRR DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Responsive Reserve in DAM—The DAM MCPC for RRS for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008 and NPRR1245:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers to provide RRS to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
	PCRRAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCRR DAM * PCRR q
Where:
	PCRR q	=	 PCRRR r, q, DAM
(2)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Only Offers to provide RRS to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
DAPCRROAMT q  = (-1) * MCPCRR DAM * DARROAWD q
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRRAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM RRS payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCRROAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve Only Amount per QSE—The payment to QSE q for all RRS only awards in DAM for the hour.
PCRR q 	MW	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve per QSE in DAM—The total RRS capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCRRR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The RRS capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCRR DAM	$/MW	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Responsive Reserve in DAM—The DAM MCPC for RRS for the hour.
DARROAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Only Award per QSE —The RRS only capacity quantity awarded in DAM to QSE q for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.1.4	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Payment
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Offers to provide Non-Spin to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCNSAMT q	=		(-1) * MCPCNS DAM * PCNS q
Where:
PCNS q	=		 PCNSR r, q, DAM
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCNSAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Non-Spin payment for QSE q for the hour.
PCNS q	MW	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin per QSE in DAM—The total Non-Spin Service capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCNSR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The Non-Spin capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCNS DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Non-Spin in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Non-Spin for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers to provide Non-Spin to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCNSAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCNS DAM * PCNS q
Where:
PCNS q   	=	 PCNSR r, q, DAM
(2)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Only Offers to provide Non-Spin to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
DAPCNSOAMT q  = (-1) * MCPCNS DAM * DANSOAWD q
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCNSAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Non-Spin payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCNSOAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Non-Spin Only Amount per QSE— The payment to QSE q for all Non-Spin only awards in DAM for the hour.
PCNS q	MW	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin per QSE in DAM—The total Non-Spin Service capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCNSR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The Non-Spin capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCNS DAM	$/MW 	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Non-Spin in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Non-Spin for the hour.
DANSOAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Only Award per QSE —The Non-Spin only capacity quantity awarded in DAM to QSE q for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.1.5	 ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Payment
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Offers to provide ECRS to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCECRAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCECR DAM * PCECR q
Where:
PCECR q	=	 PCECRR r, q, DAM
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCECRAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM ECRS payment for QSE q for the hour.
PCECR q 	MW	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service per QSE in DAM—The total ECRS capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCECRR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The ECRS capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCECR DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service in DAM—The DAM MCPC for ECRS for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers to provide ECRS to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
PCECRAMT q	=	(-1) * MCPCECR DAM * PCECR q
Where:
PCECR q	=	 PCECRR r, q, DAM
(2)	ERCOT shall pay each QSE whose Ancillary Service Only Offers to provide ECRS to ERCOT were cleared in the DAM, for each hour as follows:
DAPCECROAMT q = (-1) * MCPCECR DAM * DAECROAWD q
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCECRAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM ECRS payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCECROAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Only Amount per QSE— The payment to QSE q for all ECRS only awards in DAM for the hour.
PCECR q 	MW	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service per QSE in DAM—The total ECRS capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for all the Resources represented by this QSE for the hour.
PCECRR r, q, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service from Resource per Resource per QSE in DAM—The ECRS capacity quantity awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MCPCECR DAM	$/MW	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service in DAM—The DAM MCPC for ECRS for the hour.
DAECROAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Only Award per QSE —The ECRS only capacity quantity awarded in DAM to QSE q for the hour.
r	none	A Resource.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.2	Charges for Ancillary Services Procurement in the DAM  
4.6.4.2.1	Regulation Up Service Charge
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT a Reg-Up Service charge for each hour as follows:
DARUAMT q	=	DARUPR * DARUQ q
Where:
DARUPR	= 	(-1) * PCRUAMTTOT / DARUQTOT
PCRUAMTTOT	=	 PCRUAMT q
DARUQTOT	=	 DARUQ q
DARUQ q	=	DARUO q – DASARUQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARUAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for Reg-Up, for the hour.
DARUPR	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Price—The Day-Ahead Reg-Up price for the hour.
DARUQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Reg-Up quantity for the hour.
PCRUAMTTOT 	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up Amount Total in DAM—The total of the DAM Reg-Up payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCRUAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Reg-Up payment for QSE q for the hour.
DARUQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Reg-Up quantity for the hour.
DARUO q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Obligation per QSE—The Reg-Up capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASARUQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged Reg-Up Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged Reg-Up quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT a Reg-Up Service charge for each hour as follows:
DARUAMT q	=	DARUPR * DARUQ q
Where:
DARUPR	= 	(-1) * DAPCRUAMTTOT / DARUQTOT
DAPCRUAMTTOT	=	 (PCRUAMT q + DAPCRUOAMT q)
DARUQTOT	=	 DARUQ q
DARUQ q	=	DARUO q – DASARUQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARUAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for Reg-Up, for the hour.
DARUPR	$/MW 	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Price—The Day-Ahead Reg-Up price for the hour.
DARUQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Reg-Up quantity for the hour.
DAPCRUAMTTOT 	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Reg-Up Amount Total —The total of the DAM Reg-Up payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCRUAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Up Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Reg-Up payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCRUOAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Reg-Up Only Amount per QSE—The payment to QSE q for all Reg-Up only awards in DAM for the hour.
DARUQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Reg-Up quantity for the hour.
DARUO q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Obligation per QSE—The Reg-Up capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASARUQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged Reg-Up Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged Reg-Up quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.2.2	Regulation Down Service Charge
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT a Reg-Down Service charge for each hour as follows:
DARDAMT q	=	DARDPR * DARDQ q
Where:
DARDPR	= 	(-1) * PCRDAMTTOT / DARDQTOT
PCRDAMTTOT	=	 PCRDAMT q
DARDQTOT	=	 DARDQ q
DARDQ q	=	DARDO q – DASARDQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARDAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for Reg-Down, for the hour.
DARDPR	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Price—The Day-Ahead Reg-Down price for the hour.
DARDQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Reg-Down quantity for the hour.
PCRDAMTTOT	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down Amount Total in DAM—The total of the DAM Reg-Down payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCRDAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Reg-Down payment for QSE q for the hour.
DARDQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Reg-Down quantity for the hour.
DARDO q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Obligation per QSE—The Reg-Down capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASARDQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged Reg-Down Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged Reg-Down quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT a Reg-Down Service charge for each hour as follows:
DARDAMT q	=	DARDPR * DARDQ q
Where:
DARDPR	= 	(-1) * DAPCRDAMTTOT / DARDQTOT
DAPCRDAMTTOT	=	 (PCRDAMT q+ DAPCRDOAMT q)
DARDQTOT	=	 DARDQ q
DARDQ q	=	DARDO q – DASARDQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARDAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for Reg-Down, for the hour.
DARDPR	$/MW 	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Price—The Day-Ahead Reg-Down price for the hour.
DARDQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Reg-Down quantity for the hour.
DAPCRDAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Reg-Down Amount Total—The total of the DAM Reg-Down payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCRDAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Reg-Down Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Reg-Down payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCRDOAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Reg-Down Only Amount per QSE— The payment to QSE q for all Reg-Down only awards in DAM for the hour.
DARDQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Reg-Down quantity for the hour.
DARDO q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Obligation per QSE—The Reg-Down capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASARDQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged Reg-Down Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged Reg-Down quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.2.3	Responsive Reserve Charge
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT an RRS charge for each hour as follows:
DARRAMT q	=	DARRPR * DARRQ q
Where:
DARRPR	= 	(-1) * PCRRAMTTOT / DARRQTOT
PCRRAMTTOT	=	 PCRRAMT q
DARRQTOT	=	 DARRQ q
DARRQ q	=	DARRO q – DASARRQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARRAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for RRS, for the hour.
DARRPR	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Price—The Day-Ahead RRS price for the hour.
DARRQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged RRS quantity for the hour.
PCRRAMTTOT 	$	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve Amount Total in DAM—The total of the DAM RRS payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCRRAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve Amount per QSE for DAM—The DAM RRS payment for QSE q for the hour.
DARRQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged RRS quantity for the hour.
DARRO q	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Obligation per QSE—The RRS capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASARRQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged Responsive Reserve Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged RRS quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT an RRS charge for each hour as follows:
DARRAMT q	=	DARRPR * DARRQ q
Where:
DARRPR	= 	(-1) * DAPCRRAMTTOT / DARRQTOT
DAPCRRAMTTOT	=	 (PCRRAMT q + DAPCRROAMT q)
DARRQTOT	=	 DARRQ q
DARRQ q	=	DARRO q – DASARRQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DARRAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for RRS, for the hour.
DARRPR	$/MW 	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Price—The Day-Ahead RRS price for the hour.
DARRQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged RRS quantity for the hour.
DAPCRRAMTTOT 	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve Amount Total—The total of the DAM RRS payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCRRAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve Amount per QSE for DAM—The DAM RRS payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCRROAMT q 	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve Only Amount per QSE— The payment to QSE q for all RRS only awards in DAM for the hour.
DARRQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged RRS quantity for the hour.
DARRO q	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Obligation per QSE—The RRS capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASARRQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged Responsive Reserve Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged RRS quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.2.4	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Charge
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT a Non-Spin Service charge for each hour as follows:
DANSAMT q	=	DANSPR * DANSQ q
Where:
DANSPR	= 	(-1) * PCNSAMTTOT / DANSQTOT
PCNSAMTTOT	=	 PCNSAMT q
DANSQTOT	=	 DANSQ q
DANSQ q	=	DANSO q – DASANSQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DANSAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for Non-Spin, for the hour.
DANSPR	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Price—The Day-Ahead Non-Spin price for the hour.
DANSQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Non-Spin quantity for the hour.
PCNSAMTTOT 	$	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin Amount Total in DAM—The total of the DAM Non-Spin payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCNSAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Non-Spin payment for QSE q for the hour.
DANSQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Non-Spin quantity for the hour.
DANSO q	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Obligation per QSE—The Non-Spin capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASANSQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged Non-Spin Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged Non-Spin quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT a Non-Spin Service charge for each hour as follows:
DANSAMT q	=	DANSPR * DANSQ q
Where:
DANSPR	= 	(-1) * DAPCNSAMTTOT / DANSQTOT
DAPCNSAMTTOT	=	 (PCNSAMT q + DAPCNSOAMT q)
DANSQTOT	=	 DANSQ q
DANSQ q	=	DANSO q – DASANSQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DANSAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for Non-Spin, for the hour.
DANSPR	$/MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Price—The Day-Ahead Non-Spin price for the hour.
DANSQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Non-Spin quantity for the hour.
DAPCNSAMTTOT 	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Non-Spin Amount Total—The total of the DAM Non-Spin payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCNSAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for Non-Spin Amount per QSE in DAM—The DAM Non-Spin payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCNSOAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for Non-Spin Only Amount per QSE— The payment to QSE q for all Non-Spin only awards in DAM for the hour.
DANSQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged Non-Spin quantity for the hour.
DANSO q	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Obligation per QSE—The Non-Spin capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASANSQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged Non-Spin Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged Non-Spin quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.4.2.5	 ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Charge
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT an ECRS charge for each hour as follows:
DAECRAMT q	=	DAECRPR * DAECRQ q
Where:
DAECRPR	= 	(-1) * PCECRAMTTOT / DAECRQTOT
PCECRAMTTOT =	 PCECRAMT q
DAECRQTOT	=	 DAECRQ q
DAECRQ q	=	DAECRO q – DASAECRQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAECRAMT q	$	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for ECRS, for the hour.
DAECRPR	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Price—The Day-Ahead ECRS price for the hour.
DAECRQ q	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged ECRS quantity for the hour.
PCECRAMTTOT 	$	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Amount Total in DAM—The total of the DAM ECRS payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCECRAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Amount per QSE for DAM—The DAM ECRS payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAECRQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged ECRS quantity for the hour.
DAECRO q	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Obligation per QSE—The ECRS capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASAECRQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged ERCOT Contingency Reserve Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged ECRS quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each QSE shall pay to ERCOT or be paid by ERCOT an ECRS charge for each hour as follows:
DAECRAMT q	=	DAECRPR * DAECRQ q
Where:
DAECRPR	= 	(-1) * DAPCECRAMTTOT / DAECRQTOT
DAPCECRAMTTOT	=	 (PCECRAMT q + DAPCECROAMT q)
DAECRQTOT	=	 DAECRQ q
DAECRQ q	=	DAECRO q – DASAECRQ q
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAECRAMT q	$	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Amount per QSE—QSE q’s share of the DAM cost for ECRS, for the hour.
DAECRPR	$/MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Price—The Day-Ahead ECRS price for the hour.
DAECRQ q	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Quantity per QSE—The QSE q’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged ECRS quantity for the hour.
DAPCECRAMTTOT 	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Amount Total—The total of the DAM ECRS payments for all QSEs for the hour.
PCECRAMT q	$	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Amount per QSE for DAM—The DAM ECRS payment for QSE q for the hour.
DAPCECROAMT q 	$	Day-Ahead Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Only Amount per QSE— The payment to QSE q for all ECRS only awards in DAM for the hour.
DAECRQTOT	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Quantity Total—The sum of every QSE’s Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Obligation minus its self-arranged ECRS quantity for the hour.
DAECRO q	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Obligation per QSE—The ECRS capacity obligation for QSE q for the DAM for the hour. 
DASAECRQ q	MW	Day-Ahead Self-Arranged ERCOT Contingency Reserve Quantity per QSE—The self-arranged ECRS quantity submitted by QSE q before 1000 in the Day-Ahead.
q	none	A QSE.

4.6.5	Calculation of “Average Incremental Energy Cost” (AIEC)
(1)	The methodology of AIEC calculation is presented below.  AIEC is used to account for the additional cost for a Generation Resource to produce energy above its LSL.  This cost calculation methodology is used for the calculation of the DAAIEC variable.
I.	Energy Offer Curve:
Index (i)	MW	$/MWh
1	Q1	P1
2	Q2	P2
 	 	 
N (N10)	QN	PN
II.	MW quantity corresponding with Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap ,   ($/MWh), where   ( ):
  (MW), where  
III.	Energy Offer Curve capped with the Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap:
A.	When  :
Index (j)	MW	$/MWh
1	Q1	P1
M	M	M
i	Qi	Pi
i+1	 
 

i+2	QN	 

B.	When  :
Index (j)	MW	$/MWh
1	Q1	P1
M	M	M
N	QN	PN
IV.	Cleared offer on the capped Energy Offer Curve:
A.	When  :
Q (MW), where   ( )
B.	When  :
Q (MW), where   ( )
V.	Incremental energy price corresponding with cleared offer, on the capped Energy Offer Curve or between two points along the Energy Offer Curve:
P ($/MWh), where  
VI.	AIEC corresponding with (Q-Q1>0), on the capped Energy Offer Curve:
 


ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 5:  Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment

February 1, 2025




 
5	Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment	5-1
5.1	Introduction	5-1
5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment Timeline Summary	5-3
5.2.1	RUC Normal Timeline Summary	5-3
5.2.2	RUC Process Timing Deviations	5-4
5.2.2.1	RUC Process Timeline After a Delay of the Day-Ahead Market	5-4
5.2.2.2	RUC Process Timeline After an Aborted Day-Ahead Market	5-5
5.3	ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities	5-7
5.4	QSE Security Sequence Responsibilities	5-9
5.4.1	Ancillary Service Positions	5-10
5.5	Security Sequence, Including RUC	5-10
5.5.1	Security Sequence	5-10
5.5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process	5-12
5.5.3	Communication of RUC Commitments and Decommitments	5-25
5.6	RUC Cost Eligibility	5-26
5.6.1	Verifiable Costs	5-26
5.6.1.1	Verifiable Startup Costs	5-32
5.6.1.2	Verifiable Minimum-Energy Costs	5-32
5.6.2	RUC Startup Cost Eligibility	5-32
5.6.3	Forced Outage of a RUC-Committed Resource	5-34
5.6.4	Cancellation of a RUC Commitment	5-35
5.6.5	Settlement for Canceled or Delayed Outages for Outage Schedule Adjustments (OSAs)	5-35
5.6.5.1	Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs	5-35
5.6.5.2	RUC Make-Whole Payment and RUC Clawback Charge for Resources Receiving OSAs	5-36
5.6.5.3	Timeline for Calculating RUC Clawback Charges for Resources Receiving OSAs	5-38
5.7	Settlement for RUC Process	5-38
5.7.1	RUC Make-Whole Payment	5-38
5.7.1.1	RUC Guarantee	5-40
5.7.1.2	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue	5-44
5.7.1.3	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours	5-46
5.7.1.4	Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals	5-50
5.7.2	RUC Clawback Charge	5-54
5.7.3	Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource	5-57
5.7.4	RUC Make-Whole Charges	5-62
5.7.4.1	RUC Capacity-Short Charge	5-62
5.7.4.1.1	Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share	5-64
5.7.4.1.2	RUC Capacity Credit	5-81
5.7.4.2	RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge	5-82
5.7.5	RUC Clawback Payment	5-83
5.7.6	RUC Decommitment Charge	5-83
5.7.7 	Settlement of Switchable Generation Resources (SWGRs) Operating in a Non-ERCOT Control Area	5-84
5.8	Annual RUC Reporting Requirement	5-84
 
 
Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment 
5.1	Introduction
(1)	Transmission security analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) are used to ensure ERCOT System reliability and to ensure that enough Resource capacity, in addition to Ancillary Service capacity, is committed in the right locations to reliably serve the forecasted Load on the ERCOT System including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load that has not been curtailed. 
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Transmission security analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) are used to ensure ERCOT System reliability and to ensure that enough Resource capacity and qualified Ancillary Service capacity are committed in the right locations to reliably serve the forecasted Load and Ancillary Service needs on the ERCOT System including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load that has not been curtailed.
(2)	ERCOT shall conduct at least one Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and at least one Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) before each hour of the Operating Day.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may conduct a RUC at any time to evaluate and resolve reliability issues.
(3)	The DRUC must be run after the close of the Day-Ahead Market (DAM). 
(4)	The DRUC uses Three-Part Supply Offers, capped at the maximum of generic or verifiable minimum energy and Startup Costs, submitted before the DAM by Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) that were considered in the DAM but not awarded in the DAM.  A QSE may not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer to be considered in the DRUC unless the offer was also submitted for consideration in the DAM.
(5)	ERCOT must initiate the HRUC process at least one hour before the Operating Hour to fine-tune the Resource commitments using updated Load forecasts and updated Outage information. 
(6)	The RUC Study Period for DRUC is the next Operating Day.  The RUC Study Period for HRUC is the balance of the current Operating Day plus the next Operating Day if the DRUC for the Operating Day has been solved. 
(7)	HRUC may decommit Resources only to maintain the reliability of the ERCOT System. 
(8)	For each RUC Study Period, the RUC considers capacity requirements for each hour of the RUC Study Period with the objective of minimizing costs based on logic described in Section 5.5.2, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process.
(9)	The calculated Resource commitments arising from each RUC process, and a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, must be reviewed by ERCOT before issuing Dispatch Instructions to QSEs to commit, extend, or decommit Resources.
(10)	The Security Sequence is a set of prerequisite processes for RUC that describes the key system components and inputs that are required to support the RUC process, the RUC process itself, and the ERCOT review of the Resource commitment recommendations made by the RUC process. 
(11)	The RUC process may not be used to buy Ancillary Service unless the Ancillary Service Offers submitted in the DAM are insufficient to meet the requirements of the Ancillary Service Plan.  
[NPRR1009:  Delete paragraph (11) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(12)	After the use of market processes to the fullest extent practicable without jeopardizing the reliability of the ERCOT System, any ERCOT Dispatch Instructions for additional capacity that order a QSE to commit a specific Generation Resource to be On-Line shall be considered a RUC Dispatch for the purpose of the Settlement of payments and charges related to the committed Generation Resource.  An Operating Condition Notice (OCN), Advisory, Watch, or Emergency Notice requesting the available capacity of any currently available Generation Resources but not naming specific Generation Resources is not considered a RUC Dispatch for purposes of Settlement.
(13)	ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area, for each Off-Line Generation Resource that may be selected by an HRUC process, the current time since the Generation Resource last went Off-Line (in hours) and the corresponding start-up times ERCOT is using for each such Off-Line Generation Resource.  The time since the Generation Resource last went Off-Line and start-up times shall be updated at least hourly.
(14)	Prior to 1330 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT may issue a Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to inform a QSE that a Resource is required to be On-Line for all or part of a future Operating Day.  Following the receipt of a WRUC: 
(a)	The QSE may self-commit the Resource for the WRUC-instructed hours by updating the Resource’s Current Operating Plan (COP) to reflect the appropriate On-Line Resource Status for the WRUC-instructed hours prior to the DRUC process execution for the associated Operating Day.  Resources that have been self-committed by a QSE in accordance with a WRUC:
(i)	May have a Three-Part Supply Offer submitted into the DAM, and any of the WRUC-instructed hours in which the Three-Part Supply Offer is awarded in the DAM become DAM-Committed Intervals for the Resource and are settled accordingly; and
(ii)	Will not be issued a RUC commitment for the WRUC-instructed hours that were self-committed or DAM-committed.
(b)	ERCOT will commit the Resource as part of the DRUC process for the relevant Operating Day for all WRUC-instructed hours not DAM-committed or QSE self-committed.  For all purposes, including RUC Settlement, the Resource will be considered as committed by the DRUC for these hours.
(15)	If ERCOT issues an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) pursuant to Section 3.1.4.6, Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions, or Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities, QSEs with Resources that received an OSA shall be made whole to their actual costs incurred due to delaying or canceling and rescheduling the Outage as described in Section 5.6.5.1, Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs.
5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment Timeline Summary 
5.2.1	RUC Normal Timeline Summary
(1)	The following Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Timeline Summary describes the normal timeline for RUC activities that occur in the Day-Ahead and Adjustment Periods.









 


 
5.2.2	RUC Process Timing Deviations
5.2.2.1	RUC Process Timeline After a Delay of the Day-Ahead Market
(1)	If the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) execution is delayed in accordance with Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, ERCOT shall conduct a Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) after 1430 in the Day-Ahead and no earlier than one hour following the posting of DAM awards information on the ERCOT website as set forth in Section 4.5.3, Communicating DAM Results.  In this event, ERCOT will use the Current Operating Plan (COP) and Trades Snapshot taken just prior to the execution of the DRUC to settle RUC charges.
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	If the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) execution is delayed in accordance with Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, ERCOT shall conduct a Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) after 1430 in the Day-Ahead and no earlier than one hour following the posting of DAM awards information on the ERCOT website as set forth in Section 4.5.3, Communicating DAM Results.  In this event, ERCOT will use the RUC Snapshot taken just prior to the execution of the DRUC to settle RUC charges.
5.2.2.2	RUC Process Timeline After an Aborted Day-Ahead Market
(1)	If ERCOT aborts all or part of the Day-Ahead process in accordance with Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, for any reason not due to a Market Suspension, then ERCOT shall use the following Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM) process to purchase Ancillary Services for the next Operating Day and the Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) process described in this Section in lieu of the DRUC process.  If ERCOT aborts the Day-Ahead process due to a Market Suspension, it shall act in accordance with Section 25.3, Market Restart Processes.
(2)	When the DAM is aborted, ERCOT shall include in the Watch notification required by paragraph (2) of Section 4.1.2 the time when it intends to conduct the SASM described in this Section 5.2.2.2 to procure the amounts of Ancillary Services necessary to meet the Ancillary Service Plan for the Operating Day affected by the aborted DAM.  ERCOT shall allow at least one hour between the issuance of the Watch and the beginning of this SASM.
(3)	After the issuance of the Watch described in paragraph (2) above and prior to the beginning of this SASM, a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) may cancel unexpired Ancillary Service Offers that were submitted for the aborted DAM.
(4)	A QSE may submit Ancillary Service Offers for this SASM after the issuance of the Watch described in paragraph (2) above and prior to the beginning of this SASM.
(5)	For this SASM, the QSE must submit the Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity for the next Operating Day in accordance with the timeline described in paragraph (3) of Section 6.4.9.2, Supplemental Ancillary Services Market.  This amount may be different from the self-arrangement amounts previously submitted for the aborted DAM.
(6)	The amount of each Ancillary Service to be procured by ERCOT in this SASM is the amount of each Ancillary Service specified in the ERCOT Ancillary Service Plan posted prior to the aborted DAM less the total amount of each Ancillary Service in the QSE submittals for self-arranged Ancillary Services for this SASM.
(7)	This SASM will settle in accordance with Section 6.7, Real-Time Settlement Calculations for the Ancillary Services.
(8)	The SASM process for acquiring Ancillary Services in the event of an aborted Day-Ahead process shall be conducted in accordance with Section 6.4.9.2.2, SASM Clearing Process, but shall use the following activities and timeline as specified in paragraph (3) of Section 6.4.9.2, with time “X” being the time specified by ERCOT for the beginning of the SASM process in the Watch notification described above.
(9)	As soon as practicable, but no later than the time specified in paragraph (3) of Section 6.4.9.2, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its awarded Ancillary Service Offer quantities, specifying Resource, Ancillary Service type, SASM Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC), and the first and last hours of the awarded offer.
(10)	As soon as practicable, but no later than the time specified in paragraph (3) of Section 6.4.9.2, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the hourly:
(a)	SASM MCPC for each type of Ancillary Service for each hour;
(b)	Total Ancillary Service procured in MW by Ancillary Service type for each hour; and
(c)	Aggregated Ancillary Service Offer Curve for each Ancillary Service for each hour.
(11)	No sooner than 1800 in the Day-Ahead and after the completion of the SASM process described in this Section 5.2.2.2, ERCOT shall execute an HRUC process. 
(a)	The RUC Study Period for this HRUC process is the balance of the current Operating Day plus the next Operating Day.  This HRUC process may be a post-1800 HRUC for the current Operating Day.
(b)	The COP and Trades Snapshot taken just prior to the execution of the HRUC process described in this Section 5.2.2.2 will be used to settle RUC charges in the Operating Day affected by the aborted DAM.
(c)	This HRUC process described in this Section 5.2.2.2 may commit Resources to supply Ancillary Services if the Ancillary Service Offers submitted in the SASM described in this Section 5.2.2.2 are insufficient to meet the requirements of the Ancillary Services Plan in the Operating Day affected by the aborted DAM.
(d)	A QSE may request cancellation of a RUC instruction to supply Ancillary Services if the Resource requested is not capable of providing the Ancillary Services due to equipment issues that are the result of non-frequency responsive power augmentation or other Resource control issues.  If ERCOT accepts the cancellation, ERCOT may require QSEs to submit supporting information describing the Resource control issues.
[NPRR1009:  Replace Section 5.2.2.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
5.2.2.2	RUC Process Timeline After an Aborted Day-Ahead Market
(1)	If ERCOT aborts all or part of the Day-Ahead process in accordance with Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, for any reason not due to a Market Suspension, then ERCOT shall use the Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) process described in this Section in lieu of the DRUC process.  If ERCOT aborts the Day-Ahead process due to a Market Suspension, it shall act in accordance with Section 25.3, Market Restart Processes.
5.3	ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall start the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) process at 1430 in the Day-Ahead.
(2)	For each DRUC, ERCOT shall use a snapshot of Resource commitments taken at 1430 in the Day-Ahead for Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Settlement.  For each Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC), ERCOT shall use a snapshot of Resource commitments from each Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) most recently submitted Current Operating Plan (COP) before HRUC execution for RUC Settlement.  
(3)	For each RUC process, ERCOT shall: 
(a)	Execute the Security Sequence described in Section 5.5, Security Sequence, Including RUC, including:
(i)	Validating Three-Part Supply Offers, defined in Section 4.4.9.1, Three-Part Supply Offers;
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace item (i) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(i)	Validating Three-Part Supply Offers, defined in Section 4.4.9.1, Three-Part Supply Offers, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, defined in Section 4.4.9.7, Energy Bid/Offer Curve, and Ancillary Service Offers, defined in Section 4.4.7.2, Ancillary Service Offers;
(ii)	Reviewing the Resource commitment recommendations made by the RUC algorithm; and
(iii)	Reviewing the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less;
(b)	Post to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area all Resources that were committed or decommitted by the RUC process including verbal RUC commitments and decommitments and Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) instructions; 
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	Post to the ERCOT website all Resources that were committed or decommitted by the RUC process including verbal RUC commitments and decommitments and Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) instructions;
(c)	Post to the ERCOT website all active and binding transmission constraints (contingency and overloaded element pair information where available) used as inputs to the RUC;
(d)	Issue Dispatch Instructions to notify each QSE of its Resource commitments or decommitments; and
(e)	Post to the MIS Secure Area all Resources that were committed by the RUC process, including verbal RUC commitments, but were subsequently cancelled by the ERCOT Operator.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(e)	Post to the ERCOT website all Resources that were committed by the RUC process, including verbal RUC commitments, but were subsequently cancelled by the ERCOT Operator.
(4)	ERCOT shall provide each QSE with the information necessary to pre-validate their data for DRUC and HRUC, including publishing validation rules for offers, bids, and trades.
5.4	QSE Security Sequence Responsibilities
(1)	During the Security Sequence, each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) must: 
(a)	Submit its Current Operating Plan (COP) and update its COP as required in Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP);
(b)	Submit any Three-Part Supply Offers before: 
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(b)	Submit any Three-Part Supply Offers, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and Ancillary Service Offers before:
(i)	1000 in the Day-Ahead for the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) being run in that Day-Ahead, if the QSE wants the offer to be used in those DAM and DRUC processes; and 
(ii)	The end of the Adjustment Period for each Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC), if the QSE wants the offer to be used in the HRUC process;  
(c)	Submit any Capacity Trades before 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the DRUC and before the end of the Adjustment Period for each HRUC, if the QSE wants those Capacity Trades included in the calculation of Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Settlement; 
(d)	Submit any Energy Trades and Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules corresponding to Electronic Tags (e-Tags) before 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the DRUC and by the end of the Adjustment Period for each HRUC; if the QSE wants those Energy Trades and DC Tie Schedules included in the calculation of RUC Settlement;
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (d) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(d)	Submit any Energy Trades, Ancillary Service Trades, and Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules corresponding to Electronic Tags (e-Tags) before 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the DRUC and by the end of the Adjustment Period for each HRUC; if the QSE wants those Energy Trades and DC Tie Schedules included in the calculation of RUC Settlement;
(e)	Submit an updated COP before 1430 in the Day-Ahead that shows the specific Resources that will be used to supply the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility; and  
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(e)	Submit an updated COP before 1430 in the Day-Ahead; and
(f)	Acknowledge receipt of Resource commitment or decommitment Dispatch Instructions by submitting an updated COP.
[NPRR1009:  Insert Section 5.4.1 below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
5.4.1	Ancillary Service Positions
(1)	A QSE’s Ancillary Service Position is the net amount of Ancillary Service capacity to which the QSE has financially committed in the ERCOT market, by hour and service type, from self-arrangement, trades, and awards.  The Ancillary Service Position is the difference in MW, by hour and service type, between the amounts specified in items (a) and (b) defined as follows:
(a)	The sum of:
(i)	The QSE’s Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity; plus
(ii)	The total (in MW) of Ancillary Service Trades for which the QSE is the seller; plus
(iii)	Awards to the QSE of Ancillary Service Offers in the DAM; and 
(b)	The sum of:
(i)	The total Ancillary Service Trades for which the QSE is the buyer.
5.5	Security Sequence, Including RUC
5.5.1	Security Sequence
(1)	The figure below highlights the key computational modules and processes that are used in the Security Sequence:
 
(2)	The Security Sequence uses computational modules functionally similar to those used in Real-Time Sequence, however, the inputs into the Security Sequence are based on a snapshot of projected hourly system conditions and constraints rather than Real-Time data.   
(3)	The Security Sequence uses the status of all transmission breakers and switches (current status for the first hour and normal status for all other hours of Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) and normal status for all hours of Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC)), updated for approved Planned Outages for equipment out of service and returned to service for building a representation of the ERCOT Transmission Grid for each hour of the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Study Period.  The Network Topology Processor constructs a network model for each hour that must be used by the Bus Load Forecast to estimate the hourly Load for each transmission bus.    
(4)	The weather forecast obtained by ERCOT must be provided to the Dynamic Rating Processor to create weather-adjusted MVA limits for each hour of the RUC Study Period for all transmission lines and transformers that have Dynamic Ratings.
(5)	ERCOT shall analyze base configuration, select n-1 contingencies and select n-2 contingencies under the Operating Guides.  The Operating Guides must also specify the criteria by which ERCOT may remove contingencies from the list.  ERCOT shall post to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area the standard contingency list, including identification of changes from previous versions before being used in the Security Sequence.  ERCOT shall evaluate the need for Resource-specific deployments during Real-Time operations for management of congestion consistent with the Operating Guides.
(6)	ERCOT shall also post to the MIS Secure Area any contingencies temporarily removed from the standard contingency list by ERCOT immediately after successful execution of the Security Sequence.  ERCOT shall include the reason for removal of any contingency as soon as practicable but not later than one hour after removal. 
(7)	As part of the Network Security Analysis (NSA), for each hour of the RUC Study Period, ERCOT shall analyze all selected contingencies and perform the following:
(a)	Perform full AC analysis of all contingencies;
(b)	Monitor element and bus voltage limit violations; and
(c)	Monitor transmission line and transformer security violations. 
(8)	As part of the NSA, if there is an approved Remedial Action Plan (RAP) available, it must be used before considering a Resource commitment.
(9)	ERCOT shall review all security violations prior to RUC execution.  
(10)	All Remedial Action Schemes (RASs), Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs) and RAPs modeled in the Network Operations Model shall be included in the contingency analysis.  The computational modules must enable ERCOT to analyze contingencies, including the effects of all RASs and AMPs included in the Network Operations Model. 
(11)	ERCOT may deselect certain contingencies known to cause errors or that otherwise result in inconclusive study output in the RUC.  On continued de-selection of contingencies, ERCOT shall prepare an analysis to determine the cause of the error.  ERCOT may use information from the Day-Ahead processes as decision support during the Hour-Ahead processes.  ERCOT shall post to the MIS Secure Area any contingencies deselected by ERCOT and must include the reason for removal as soon as practicable, but not later than one hour after deselection.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (11) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(11)	ERCOT may deselect certain contingencies known to cause errors or that otherwise result in inconclusive study output in the RUC.  On continued de-selection of contingencies, ERCOT shall prepare an analysis to determine the cause of the error.  ERCOT may use information from the Day-Ahead processes as decision support during the Hour-Ahead processes.  ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website any contingencies deselected by ERCOT and must include the reason for removal as soon as practicable, but not later than one hour after deselection.
5.5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process
(1)	The RUC process recommends commitment of Generation Resources, to match ERCOT’s forecasted Load including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules, subject to all transmission constraints and Resource performance characteristics.  The RUC process takes into account Resources already committed in the Current Operating Plans (COPs), Resources already committed in previous RUCs, Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, and Resource capacity already committed to provide Ancillary Service.  The formulation of the RUC objective function must employ penalty factors on violations of security constraints.  The objective of the RUC process is to minimize costs based on the Resource costs described in paragraphs (5) through (9) below.  For all hours of the RUC Study Period within the RUC process, Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) with a COP Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as On-Line with Low Sustained Limit (LSL) at zero MW.  QSGRs with a Resource Status of OFFQS shall only be committed by ERCOT through a RUC instruction in instances when a reliability issue would not otherwise be managed through Dispatch Instructions from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  For On-Line Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), the Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC) values provided in the COP for a given hour are discounted to ensure sufficient SOC is preserved to meet Ancillary Service Resource Responsibilities, as reflected in the COP.  Any remaining SOC on the ESR will be considered available for energy dispatch by RUC while respecting the Minimum State of Charge (MinSOC) and Maximum State of Charge (MaxSOC) values provided in the COP.
(2)	The RUC process can recommend Resource decommitment.  ERCOT may only decommit a Resource to resolve transmission constraints that are otherwise unresolvable. Qualifying Facilities (QFs) may be decommitted only after all other types of Resources have been assessed for decommitment.  In addition, the HRUC process provides decision support to ERCOT regarding a Resource decommitment requested by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(3)	ERCOT shall review the RUC-recommended Resource commitments and the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less to assess feasibility and shall make any changes that it considers necessary, in its sole discretion.  During the RUC process, ERCOT may also review and commit, through a RUC instruction, Combined Cycle Generation Resources that are currently planned to be On-Line but are capable of transitioning to a configuration with additional capacity.  ERCOT may deselect Resources recommended in DRUC and in all HRUC processes if in ERCOT’s sole discretion there is enough time to commit those Resources in the future HRUC processes, taking into account the Resources’ start-up times, to meet ERCOT System reliability.  After each RUC run, ERCOT shall post the amount of capacity deselected per hour in the RUC Study Period to the MIS Secure Area.  A Generation Resource shown as On-Line and available for SCED dispatch for an hour in its COP prior to a DRUC or HRUC process execution, according to Section 5.3, ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities, will be considered self-committed for that hour.  For purpose of Settlement, snapshot data will be used as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.  ERCOT shall issue RUC instructions to each QSE specifying its Resources that have been committed as a result of the RUC process.  ERCOT shall, within one day after making any changes to the RUC-recommended commitments, post to the MIS Secure Area any changes that ERCOT made to the RUC-recommended commitments with an explanation of the changes.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall review the RUC-recommended Resource commitments and the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less to assess feasibility and shall make any changes that it considers necessary, in its sole discretion.  During the RUC process, ERCOT may also review and commit, through a RUC instruction, Combined Cycle Generation Resources that are currently planned to be On-Line but are capable of transitioning to a configuration with additional capacity.  ERCOT may deselect Resources recommended in DRUC and in all HRUC processes if in ERCOT’s sole discretion there is enough time to commit those Resources in the future HRUC processes, taking into account the Resources’ start-up times, to meet ERCOT System reliability.  After each RUC run, ERCOT shall post the amount of capacity deselected per hour in the RUC Study Period to the ERCOT website.  A Generation Resource shown as On-Line and available for SCED dispatch for an hour in its COP prior to a DRUC or HRUC process execution, according to Section 5.3, ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities, will be considered self-committed for that hour.  For purpose of Settlement, snapshot data will be used as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.  ERCOT shall issue RUC instructions to each QSE specifying its Resources that have been committed as a result of the RUC process.  ERCOT shall, within one day after making any changes to the RUC-recommended commitments, post to the ERCOT website any changes that ERCOT made to the RUC-recommended commitments with an explanation of the changes.
(4)	A QSE shall notify the ERCOT Operator of any physical limitation that impacts its Resource’s ability to start that is not reflected in the Resource’s COP or the Resource’s startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.  The following shall apply:
(a)	If a Resource receives a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it cannot meet due to a physical limitation described in paragraph (4) above, the QSE representing the Resource shall notify the ERCOT Operator of the inability to fully comply with the instruction and shall comply with the instruction to the best of the Resource’s ability.  If the QSE has provided the ERCOT Operator notice of that limitation at least seven days prior to the Operating Day in which the instruction occurs, the QSE shall be excused from complying with the portion of the RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to the identified limitation.  
(b)	If a QSE provides notice pursuant to paragraph (a) above of a physical limitation that will delay the RUC-committed Resource’s ability to reach its LSL in accordance with a RUC Dispatch Instruction, ERCOT shall extend the RUC Dispatch Instruction so that the Resource’s minimum run time is respected. However, if the Resource will not be available in time to address the issue for which it received the RUC instruction, ERCOT may instead cancel the RUC Dispatch Instruction.
(5)	A QSE shall be excused from complying with any portion of a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to a physical limitation that was reflected, at the time of the RUC Dispatch Instruction, in the Resource’s COP, startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.
(6)	To determine the projected energy output level of each Resource and to project potential congestion patterns for each hour of the RUC, ERCOT shall calculate proxy Energy Offer Curves based on the Mitigated Offer Caps (MOCs) for the type of Resource as specified in Section 4.4.9.4, Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor, for use in the RUC.  Proxy Energy Offer Curves are calculated by multiplying the MOC by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.10% and applying the cost for all Generation Resource output between High Sustained Limit (HSL) and LSL.  The intent of this process is to minimize the effect of the proxy Energy Offer Curves on optimization.
(7)	ERCOT shall use the RUC process to evaluate the need to commit Resources for which a QSE has submitted Three-Part Supply Offers and other available Off-Line Resources in addition to Resources that are planned to be On-Line during the RUC Study Period.  All of the above commitment information must be as specified in the QSE’s COP.  For available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (9) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, Current Operating Plan (COP) Performance Requirements, the Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offer from a Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer shall not be used in the RUC process. 
(8)	ERCOT shall create Three-Part Supply Offers for all Resources that did not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer, but are specified as available but Off-Line, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of EMR, in a QSE’s COP.  For such Resources, excluding available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (9) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall use in the RUC process 100% of any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as described specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, registered with ERCOT.  Also, for Settlement purposes, ERCOT shall use any approved verifiable Startup Costs and verifiable minimum-energy cost for such Resources, or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost.
(9)	For all available Off-Line Resources having a cold start time of one hour or less and not removed from special consideration pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall scale any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3 for use in the RUC process.  
The above parameter is defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
1HRLESSCOSTSCALING	Percentage	Maximum value of 100%
*  The current value for the parameter(s) referenced in this table above will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter value(s) on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(10)	The RUC process must treat all Resource capacity providing Ancillary Service as unavailable for the RUC Study Period, unless that treatment leads to infeasibility (i.e., that capacity is needed to resolve some local transmission problem that cannot be resolved by any other means).  If an ERCOT Operator decides that the Ancillary Service capacity allocated to that Resource is infeasible based on ERCOT System conditions, then, ERCOT shall inform each affected QSE of the amount of its Resource capacity that does not qualify to provide Ancillary Service, and the projected hours for which this is the case.  In that event, the affected QSE may, under Section 6.4.9.1.2, Replacement of Infeasible Ancillary Service Due to Transmission Constraints, either:
(a)	Substitute capacity from Resources represented by that QSE;
(b)	Substitute capacity from other QSEs using Ancillary Service Trades; or 
(c)	Ask ERCOT to replace the capacity.   
(11)	Factors included in the RUC process are: 
(a)	ERCOT System-wide hourly Load forecast allocated appropriately over Load buses;
(b)	Transmission constraints – Transfer limits on energy flows through the electricity network;
(i)	Thermal constraints – protect transmission facilities against thermal overload;
(ii)	Generic constraints – protect the transmission system against transient instability, dynamic instability or voltage collapse;
(c)	Planned transmission topology;
(d)	Energy sufficiency constraints;
(e)	Inputs from the COP, as appropriate;
(f)	Inputs from Resource Parameters, including a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, as appropriate;
(g)	Each Generation Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer and Startup Offer, from its Three-Part Supply Offer;
(h)	Any Generation Resource that is Off-Line and available but does not have a Three-Part Supply Offer;
(i)	Forced Outage information; and
(j)	Inputs from the eight-day look ahead planning tool, which may potentially keep a unit On-Line (or start a unit for the next day) so that a unit minimum duration between starts does not limit the availability of the unit (for security reasons).  
(12)	The HRUC process and the DRUC process are as follows:
(a)	The HRUC process uses current Resource Status for the initial condition for the first hour of the RUC Study Period.  All HRUC processes use the projected status of transmission breakers and switches starting with current status and updated for each remaining hour in the study as indicated in the COP for Resources and in the Outage Scheduler for transmission elements. 
(b)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules for each hour in the RUC Study Period.
(c)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead weather forecast for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the weather forecast information for each hour of the balance of the RUC Study Period.
(13)	A QSE that has one or more of its Resources RUC-committed to provide Ancillary Services must increase its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility by the total amount of RUC-committed Ancillary Service quantities.  The QSE may only use a RUC-committed Resource to meet its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility during that Resource’s RUC-Committed Interval if the Resource has been committed by the RUC process to provide Ancillary Service, or the Resource is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was RUC-committed to transition from one On-Line configuration to a different configuration with additional capacity.  For cases in which the commitment was to provide Ancillary Service, the QSE shall indicate the exact amount and type of Ancillary Service for which it was committed as the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility and Ancillary Services Schedule for the RUC-Committed Intervals for both telemetry and COP information provided to ERCOT.  Upon deployment of the Ancillary Services, the QSE shall adjust its Ancillary Services Schedule to reflect the amounts requested in the deployment.
(14)	A QSE with a Resource that is not a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit or has not received an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) that has been committed in a DRUC or HRUC process may opt out of the RUC Settlement (or “buy back” the commitment) by setting the COP status of the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  All the configurations of the same Combined Cycle Train shall be treated as the same Resource for the purpose of creating the block of RUC-Committed Hours.  A RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource may opt out of the RUC Settlement by setting the COP status of any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the same Combined Cycle Train as the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  A Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is RUC-committed from one On-Line configuration in order to transition to a different configuration with additional capacity may opt out of the RUC Settlement following the same rule for RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources described above.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement forfeits RUC Settlement for the affected Resource for a given block of RUC Buy-Back Hours.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement treatment must make the Resource available to SCED for all RUC Buy-Back Hours.  All hours in a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours that includes the RUC Buy-Back Hour shall be considered RUC Buy-Back Hours.  If a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours spans more than one Operating Day and a QSE wishes to opt out of RUC Settlement for the RUC-Committed Hours in the second or subsequent Operating Day, the QSE must set its COP status to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of the first Operating Day in the Opt Out Snapshot of the first Operating Day.
(15)	ERCOT shall, as soon as practicable, post to the MIS Secure Area a report identifying those hours that were considered RUC Buy-Back Hours, along with the name of each RUC-committed Resource whose QSE opted out of RUC Settlement.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (15) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(15)	ERCOT shall, as soon as practicable, post to the ERCOT website a report identifying those hours that were considered RUC Buy-Back Hours, along with the name of each RUC-committed Resource whose QSE opted out of RUC Settlement.
(16)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and subsequently receives a RUC commitment for the Operating Hour for which it was awarded will be treated as if the telemetered Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, and Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.
(17)	A Resource that has self-committed for an Operating Hour after the RUC Snapshot was taken but before the RUC commitment has been communicated through an XML message for that RUC process and that Operating Hour is included in a block of RUC-committed hours for that RUC process will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Section 6.5.7.3.1, Operating Reserve Demand Curve (ORDC) calculations, and RUC Settlement for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  A QSE that has a Resource that meets these conditions must make the Resource available to SCED for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  ERCOT will send the QSE a notification stating the Operating Day and block of hours for which this occurred.
[NPRR1009, NPRR1032, NPRR1204, NPRR1239, and NPRR1245:  Replace applicable portions of Section 5.5.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009, NPRR1204, and NPRR1245; or upon system implementation for NPRR1032 or NPRR1239:]
5.5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process
(1)	The RUC process recommends commitment of Generation Resources, to match ERCOT’s forecasted Load including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules and RUC Ancillary Service Demand Curves (ASDCs), subject to all transmission constraints and Resource performance characteristics.  The RUC process takes into account Resources already committed in the Current Operating Plans (COPs), Resources already committed in previous RUCs, and Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less.  For On-Line Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), using RUC duration requirements for energy and Ancillary Services, RUC-projected dispatch for energy and Ancillary Service in one interval shall respect the ESR’s minimum and maximum State of Charge (SOC) values from the COP, while incorporating any adjustments under paragraph (19)(d) below.  In addition, using the Ancillary Service Deployment Factors and their respective deployment duration requirements, the SOC required to support these dispatch levels for energy and Ancillary Services will match as closely as possible the difference between the adjusted COP values of the next interval’s Hour Beginning Planned SOC and the current interval’s Hour Beginning Planned SOC.  The formulation of the RUC objective function must employ penalty factors on violations of security constraints and violations of ESR COP Hour Beginning Planned SOC.  The objective of the RUC process is to minimize costs based on the Resource costs described in paragraphs (11) through (15) below.  ESR energy dispatch costs and Ancillary Service Offer costs are not included in the RUC objective function.
(2)	ERCOT shall create an ASDC for each Ancillary Service for use in RUC.  ERCOT shall post the ASDCs to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable after any change to the ASDCs.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the following Ancillary Service Deployment Factor data on the ERCOT website:
(a)	Following each execution of RUC, ERCOT shall post the Ancillary Service Deployment Factors used by that RUC process for each hour in the RUC Study Period;
(b)	No later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead for each Operating Day, ERCOT shall post the Ancillary Service Deployments Factors that are projected to be used in the RUC process for that Operating Day; and
(c)	Following each month, ERCOT shall post the average, minimum, and maximum Ancillary Service Deployment Factors used in the RUC process by type of Ancillary Service and hour of the day for the month.
(4)	For all hours of the RUC Study Period within the RUC process, Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) with a COP Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as On-Line with Low Sustained Limit (LSL) at zero MW.  QSGRs with a Resource Status of OFFQS shall only be committed by ERCOT through a RUC instruction in instances when a reliability issue would not otherwise be managed through Dispatch Instructions from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED). 
(5)	In addition to On-Line qualified Generation Resources and ESRs, the RUC engine shall consider a COP Resource status of OFFQS for QSGRs that are qualified for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), as being eligible to provide ECRS constrained by the Ancillary Service capability in the COP.
(6)	In addition to On-Line qualified Generation Resources and ESRs, the RUC engine shall consider a COP Resource Status of OFFQS for QSGRs that are qualified for Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), as being eligible to provide Non-Spin constrained by the Ancillary Service Capability in the COP.  The RUC engine shall also consider a COP Resource Status of OFF (Off-Line but available for commitment in the DAM and RUC) for a Resource that is qualified for Non-Spin, as being eligible to provide Non-Spin constrained by the Ancillary Service capability in the COP.
(7)	In addition to On-Line qualified Generation Resources and ESRs, the RUC engine shall consider a COP Resource Status of ONL for Load Resources that are qualified for Ancillary Services, as being eligible to provide Ancillary Services constrained by the Ancillary Service Capability in the COP.  The RUC engine will not consider any Load Resources for dispatch of energy.
(8)	The RUC process can recommend Resource decommitment.  ERCOT may only decommit a Resource to resolve transmission constraints that are otherwise unresolvable.  Qualifying Facilities (QFs) may be decommitted only after all other types of Resources have been assessed for decommitment.  In addition, the HRUC process provides decision support to ERCOT regarding a Resource decommitment requested by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(9)	ERCOT shall review the RUC-recommended Resource commitments and the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less to assess feasibility and shall make any changes that it considers necessary, in its sole discretion.  During the RUC process, ERCOT may also review and commit, through a RUC instruction, Combined Cycle Generation Resources that are currently planned to be On-Line but are capable of transitioning to a configuration with additional capacity.  ERCOT may deselect Resources recommended in DRUC and in all HRUC processes if in ERCOT’s sole discretion there is enough time to commit those Resources in the future HRUC processes, taking into account the Resources’ start-up times, to meet ERCOT System reliability.  After each RUC run, ERCOT shall post the amount of capacity deselected per hour in the RUC Study Period to the ERCOT website.  A Generation Resource shown as On-Line and available for SCED dispatch for an hour in its COP prior to a DRUC or HRUC process execution, according to Section 5.3, ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities, will be considered self-committed for that hour.  For purpose of Settlement, snapshot data will be used as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.  
(10)	ERCOT shall issue RUC instructions to each QSE specifying its Resources that have been committed as a result of the RUC process.  ERCOT shall, within one day after making any changes to the RUC-recommended commitments, post to the ERCOT website any changes that ERCOT made to the RUC-recommended commitments with an explanation of the changes.
(11)	ERCOT shall use the RUC process to evaluate the need to commit Resources for which a QSE has submitted Three-Part Supply Offers and other available Off-Line Resources in addition to Resources that are planned to be On-Line during the RUC Study Period.  All of the above commitment information must be as specified in the QSE’s COP.  For available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (17) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, Current Operating Plan (COP) Performance Requirements, the Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offer from a Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer shall not be used in the RUC process. 
(12)	ERCOT shall create Three-Part Supply Offers for all Resources that did not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer, but are specified as available but Off-Line, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of EMR, in a QSE’s COP.  For such Resources, excluding available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (15) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall use in the RUC process 100% of any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as described specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, registered with ERCOT.  Also, for Settlement purposes, ERCOT shall use any approved verifiable Startup Costs and verifiable minimum-energy cost for such Resources, or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost.
(13)	A QSE shall notify the ERCOT Operator of any physical limitation that impacts its Resource’s ability to start that is not reflected in the Resource’s COP or the Resource’s startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.  The following shall apply:
(a)	If a Resource receives a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it cannot meet due to a physical limitation described in paragraph (5) above, the QSE representing the Resource shall notify the ERCOT Operator of the inability to fully comply with the instruction and shall comply with the instruction to the best of the Resource’s ability.  If the QSE has provided the ERCOT Operator notice of that limitation at least seven days prior to the Operating Day in which the instruction occurs, the QSE shall be excused from complying with the portion of the RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to the identified limitation.  
(b)	If a QSE provides notice pursuant to paragraph (a) above of a physical limitation that will delay the RUC-committed Resource’s ability to reach its LSL in accordance with a RUC Dispatch Instruction, ERCOT shall extend the RUC Dispatch Instruction so that the Resource’s minimum run time is respected. However, if the Resource will not be available in time to address the issue for which it received the RUC instruction, ERCOT may instead cancel the RUC Dispatch Instruction.
(14)	A QSE shall be excused from complying with any portion of a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to a physical limitation that was reflected, at the time of the RUC Dispatch Instruction, in the Resource’s COP, startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.
(15)	To determine the projected energy output level of each Resource and to project potential congestion patterns for each hour of the RUC, ERCOT shall calculate proxy Energy Offer Curves based on the Mitigated Offer Caps (MOCs) for the type of Resource as specified in Section 4.4.9.4, Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor, for use in the RUC.  Proxy Energy Offer Curves are calculated by multiplying the MOC by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.10% and applying the cost for all Generation Resource output between High Sustained Limit (HSL) and LSL.  The intent of this process is to minimize the effect of the proxy Energy Offer Curves on optimization.  For ESRs, energy dispatch costs are not considered in determining projected energy output levels.
(16)	ERCOT shall calculate proxy Ancillary Service Offer Curves for use in RUC based on validated Ancillary Service Offers as specified in Section 4.4.7.2, Ancillary Service Offers.  For all Resources that do not have a valid Ancillary Service Offer but are qualified to provide an Ancillary Service, ERCOT shall create an Ancillary Service Offer Curve for use in RUC as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.  Proxy Ancillary Service Offer Curves for use in RUC are calculated by multiplying the Ancillary Service Offer by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.1%, and are extended between the HSL and LSL.  Notwithstanding the presence or absence of a proxy Ancillary Service Offer, Ancillary Service provision in RUC shall be limited by the Resource’s Ancillary Service capabilities as reflected in the COP.  For ESRs, Ancillary Service Offer costs are not considered in determining projected Ancillary Service awards.
(17)	For all available Off-Line Resources having a cold start time of one hour or less and not removed from special consideration pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall scale any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3 for use in the RUC process.  
The above parameter is defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
1HRLESSCOSTSCALING	Percentage	Maximum value of 100%
*  The current value for the parameter(s) referenced in this table above will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter value(s) on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(18)	Factors included in the RUC process are: 
(a)	ERCOT System-wide hourly Load forecast allocated appropriately over Load buses;
(b)	ERCOT’s Ancillary Service Plans in the form of ASDCs;
(c)	Transmission constraints – Transfer limits on energy flows through the electricity network;
(i)	Thermal constraints – protect transmission facilities against thermal overload;
(ii)	Generic constraints – protect the transmission system against transient instability, dynamic instability or voltage collapse;
(d)	Planned transmission topology;
(e)	Energy sufficiency constraints, including RUC duration requirements for energy and Ancillary Services;
(f)	Inputs from the COP, as appropriate;
(g)	Inputs from Resource Parameters, including a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, as appropriate;
(h)	Each Generation Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer and Startup Offer, from its Three-Part Supply Offer;
(i)	Any Generation Resource that is Off-Line and available but does not have a Three-Part Supply Offer;
(j)	Forced Outage information;
(k)	Inputs from the eight-day look ahead planning tool, which may potentially keep a unit On-Line (or start a unit for the next day) so that a unit minimum duration between starts does not limit the availability of the unit (for security reasons); and
(l)	Ancillary Service Deployment Factors. 
(19)	The HRUC process and the DRUC process are as follows:
(a)	The HRUC process uses current Resource Status for the initial condition for the first hour of the RUC Study Period.  All HRUC processes use the projected status of transmission breakers and switches starting with current status and updated for each remaining hour in the study as indicated in the COP for Resources and in the Outage Scheduler for transmission elements. 
(b)	The DRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules up to the physical rating of the DC Tie for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules up to the physical rating of the DC Tie for each hour in the RUC Study Period.
(c)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead weather forecast for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the weather forecast information for each hour of the balance of the RUC Study Period.
(d)	For the HRUC, DRUC, and Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) processes, a feasibility check on the COP submitted Hour Beginning Planned SOC will be performed.  This check may adjust the Hour Beginning Planned SOC used in the RUC process.  The feasibility check looks sequentially across all intervals in the RUC Study Period to validate whether a particular interval’s COP Hour Beginning Planned SOC is achievable from the previous interval.  If it is not feasible, then RUC will adjust the Hour Beginning Planned SOC to the closest achievable value.
(20)	A QSE with a Resource that is not a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit or has not received an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) that has been committed in a DRUC or HRUC process may opt out of the RUC Settlement (or “buy back” the commitment) by setting the COP status of the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  All the configurations of the same Combined Cycle Train shall be treated as the same Resource for the purpose of creating the block of RUC-Committed Hours.  A RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource may opt out of the RUC Settlement by setting the COP status of any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the same Combined Cycle Train as the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  A Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is RUC-committed from one On-Line configuration in order to transition to a different configuration with additional capacity may opt out of the RUC Settlement following the same rule for RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources described above.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement forfeits RUC Settlement for the affected Resource for a given block of RUC Buy-Back Hours.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement treatment must make the Resource available to SCED for all RUC Buy-Back Hours.  All hours in a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours that includes the RUC Buy-Back Hour shall be considered RUC Buy-Back Hours.  If a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours spans more than one Operating Day and a QSE wishes to opt out of RUC Settlement for the RUC-Committed Hours in the second or subsequent Operating Day, the QSE must set its COP status to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of that the first Operating Day in the Opt Out Snapshot of the first Operating Day.
(21)	ERCOT shall, as soon as practicable, post to the ERCOT website a report identifying those hours that were considered RUC Buy-Back Hours, along with the name of each RUC-committed Resource whose QSE opted out of RUC Settlement.
(22)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and subsequently receives a RUC commitment for the Operating Hour for which it was awarded will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3 and Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adders.
(23)	A Resource that has self-committed for an Operating Hour after the RUC Snapshot was taken but before the RUC commitment has been communicated through an XML message for that RUC process and that Operating Hour is included in a block of RUC-committed hours for that RUC process will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Section 6.5.7.3.1, and RUC Settlement for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  A QSE that has a Resource that meets these conditions must make the Resource available to SCED for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  ERCOT will send the QSE a notification stating the Operating Day and block of hours for which this occurred.
5.5.3	Communication of RUC Commitments and Decommitments
(1)	The output of the RUC process is the cleared Resource commitments and decommitments, and a list of the Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify each QSE in the Day-Ahead of the DRUC Resource commitments and advisory decommitments that have been cleared by the RUC for the Resources that QSE represents.  ERCOT shall notify each QSE of the HRUC Resource commitments and decommitments that have been cleared by the RUC for the Resources that QSE represents.  Resource commitments must include the start interval and duration for which the Resource is required to be at least at LSL.  Resource decommitments must include the interval in which the Resource is required to be Off-Line, duration, and reason for the decommitment.  ERCOT shall notify each QSE representing an RMR Unit if that unit has been cleared by the DRUC or HRUC process at the same time that the DRUC and HRUC participants are notified of the results of each such process.  
(3)	If ERCOT communicates HRUC commitments and decommitments verbally to a QSE, then the same Resource attributes communicated programmatically must be communicated when ERCOT gives a verbal Resource commitment or decommitment.
(4)	The QSE shall acknowledge the notice or commitment or decommitment by changing the Resource Status of the affected Resources in the COP for RUC-Committed Intervals.
5.6	RUC Cost Eligibility
5.6.1	Verifiable Costs
(1)	The Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) is responsible for submitting verifiable costs unless both the QSE and Resource Entity agree that the Resource Entity will have this responsibility, in which case both the QSE and Resource Entity shall submit an affidavit to ERCOT stating this arrangement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, QSEs that submit Power Purchase or Tolling Agreements (PPAs) do not have the option of allowing Resource Entities to file verifiable costs.
(2)	Make-Whole Payments for a Resource are based on the Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offers for the Resource, limited by caps.  Until ERCOT approves verifiable unit-specific costs for that Resource, the caps are the Resource Category Startup Generic Cap and the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap.  When ERCOT approves verifiable unit-specific costs for that Resource the caps are those verifiable unit-specific costs.  A QSE or Resource Entity may file verifiable unit-specific costs for a Resource at any time, but it must file those costs no later than 30 days after five Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) events for that Resource in a calendar year.  A RUC event begins when a Resource receives a RUC instruction to come or stay On-Line and ends the later of when the Resource shuts down or the end of the Operating Day.  The most recent ERCOT-approved verifiable costs must be used going forward. 
(3)	These unit-specific verifiable costs may include and are limited to the following average incremental costs:
(a)	Allocation of maintenance requirements based on number of starts between maintenance events using, at the option of the QSE or Resource Entity, either:
(i)	Manufacturer-recommended maintenance schedule; 
(ii)	Historical data for the unit and actual maintenance practices; or
(iii)	Another method approved in advance by ERCOT in writing;
(b)	Startup fuel calculations based on recorded actual measured flows when the data is available or based on averages of historical flows for similar starts (for example, hot, cold, intermediate) when actual data is not available.  Startup fuel will include filing separately the startup fuel required to reach breaker close and fuel after breaker close to Low Sustained Limit (LSL).  Any fuel required to shutdown a Resource will be submitted as the fuel from breaker open to shutdown;
(c)	Operation costs;
(d)	Chemical costs;
(e)	Water costs; and
(f)	Emission credits.
(4)	Standard Operations and Maintenance (O&M) costs pursuant to paragraph (6) below may be used in lieu of the incremental O&M costs set forth in items (3)(a), (c), (d) and (e) above. 
(5)	These unit-specific verifiable costs may not include:
(a)	Fixed costs, which are any cost that is incurred regardless of whether the unit is deployed or not; and
(b)	Costs for which the QSE or Resource Entity cannot provide sufficient documentation for ERCOT to verify the costs.
(6)	At their election, QSEs or Resource Entities may receive standard O&M costs for both startup and minimum energy.  This election may be made by submitting an election form to ERCOT.  If a QSE or Resource has received final approval for actual verifiable O&M costs under the verifiable cost process, it may not elect to receive standard O&M costs.  
(a)	Until December 31, 2011, standard O&M costs are defined as follows:
Resource Category
Start Year = 2009	Cold Startup ($/start)	Intermediate Startup ($/start)	Hot Startup ($/start)	Variable O&M ($/MWh)
Aeroderivative simple cycle commissioned after 1996	1,000.00	1,000.00	1,000.00	3.94
Reciprocating Engine	$58/MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$58/MW * the average of the  Seasonal net max sustainable ratings  	$58/MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	5.09
Simple cycle ≤ 90 MW	2,300.00	2,300.00	2,300.00	3.94
Simple cycle ≥ 90 MW	5,000.00	5,000.00	5,000.00	3.94
Combined cycle:  for each  Combined-Cycle Configuration, the Startup Cost for that configuration is the sum of the Startup Costs for each unit within that configuration as follows:				3.19
Combustion turbine < 90 MW	2,300.00	2,300.00	2,300.00	
Combustion turbine ≥ 90 MW	5,000.00	5,000.00	5,000.00	
Steam turbine	3,000.00	2,250.00	1,250.00	
Gas-steam non-reheat boiler	2,310.00	1,732.50	866.25	7.08
Gas-steam reheat boiler	3,000.00	2,250.00	1,125.00	7.08
Gas-steam supercritical boiler	4,800.00	3,600.00	1,800.00	7.08
Nuclear, coal, lignite and hydro	7,200.00	5,400.00	2,700.00	5.02
Renewable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	5.50
(b)	For the period beginning January 1, 2012 and ending December 31, 2012, standard O&M costs shall be reduced by 10% from the levels specified in the table in paragraph (a) above as follows:
Resource Category	Cold Startup ($/start)	Intermediate Startup ($/start)	Hot Startup ($/start)	Variable O&M ($/MWh)
Start Year = 2009				
Aeroderivative simple cycle commissioned after 1996	900.00	900.00	900.00	3.55
Reciprocating Engine	$52.20/MW * the average of the  Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$52.20/MW * the average of the  Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$52.20/MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	4.58
Simple cycle ≤ 90 MW	2,070.00	2,070.00	2,070.00	3.55
Simple cycle ≥ 90 MW	4,500.00	4,500.00	4,500.00	3.55
Combined cycle:  for each  Combined-Cycle Configuration, the Startup Cost for that configuration is the sum of the Startup Costs for each unit within that configuration as follows:				2.87
Combustion turbine < 90 MW	2,070.00	2,070.00	2,070.00	
Combustion turbine ≥ 90 MW	4,500.00	4,500.00	4,500.00	
Steam turbine	2,700.00	2,025.00	1,125.00	
Gas-steam non-reheat boiler	2,079.00	1,559.25	779.63	6.37
Gas-steam reheat boiler	2,700.00	2,025.00	1,012.50	6.37
Gas-steam supercritical boiler	4,320.00	3,240.00	1,620.00	6.37
Nuclear, coal, lignite and hydro	6,480.00	4,860.00	2,430.00	4.52
Renewable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	4.95
(c)	Beginning January 1, 2013 and going forward, standard O&M costs shall be reduced by 20% from the levels specified in the table in paragraph (a) above as follows:
Resource Category	Cold Startup ($/start)	Intermediate Startup ($/start)	Hot Startup ($/start)	Variable O&M ($/MWh)
Start Year = 2009				
Aeroderivative simple cycle commissioned after 1996	800.00	800.00	800.00	3.15
Reciprocating Engine	$46.40/MW * the average of the  Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$46.40 /MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$46.40 /MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	4.07
Simple cycle ≤ 90 MW	1,840.00	1,840.00	1,840.00	3.15
Simple cycle ≥ 90 MW	4,000.00	4,000.00	4,000.00	3.15
Combined cycle:  for each  Combined-Cycle Configuration, the Startup Cost for that configuration is the sum of the Startup Costs for each unit within that configuration as follows:	 	 	 	2.55
Combustion turbine < 90 MW	1,840.00	1,840.00	1,840.00	 
Combustion turbine ≥ 90 MW	4,000.00	4,000.00	4,000.00	 
Steam turbine	2,400.00	1,800.00	1,000.00	 
Gas-steam non-reheat boiler	1,848.00	1,386.00	693.00	5.66
Gas-steam reheat boiler	2,400.00	1,800.00	900.00	5.66
Gas-steam supercritical boiler	3,840.00	2,880.00	1,440.00	5.66
Nuclear, coal, lignite and hydro	5,760.00	4,320.00	2,160.00	4.02
Renewable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	4.40
(d)	If the QSE or Resource Entity chooses to utilize the standard O&M costs for O&M, standard O&M costs will be used by ERCOT going forward until either:
(i)	Verifiable variable O&M costs are filed; or 
(ii)	ERCOT notifies the QSE or Resource Entity to update its verifiable costs as set forth in either paragraph (9) or (10) below.  If a Resource is receiving standard O&M costs, it may reelect standard O&M costs when resubmitting verifiable costs.
(7)	When submitting verifiable costs for combined cycle Resources, the QSE or Resource Entity must elect standard O&M costs for all Combined-Cycle Configurations or verifiable costs for all Combined-Cycle Configurations within the combined cycle train.  
(8)	QSEs submitting PPAs as Resource-specific verifiable costs documentation are subject to the guidelines detailed below and in the Verifiable Cost Manual.
(a)	Only QSEs offering Three-Part Supply Offers for a specific Resource may submit a PPA as verifiable costs documentation.
(b)	A QSE submitting a PPA as verifiable costs documentation must represent 100% of the Resource’s capacity.  
(c)	Only PPAs:  
(i) 	Signed prior to July 16, 2008; and 
(ii)	Not between Affiliates, subsidiaries or partners will be accepted as verifiable cost documentation.
(d)	Verifiable costs for PPAs shall be capped at the level of the highest comparable Resource (referred to as the reference Resource) specific verifiable costs approved by ERCOT without a PPA.  The ERCOT approved verifiable costs for a PPA shall be equal to the lesser of:  
(i)	The cap as described in paragraph (d) above; and 
(ii)	The costs from the PPA.
(e)	ERCOT shall use the Resource actual fuel costs submitted by the QSE for startup and operation at minimum-energy level (LSL), and shall use the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Costs as the cap for the O&M portion of the Startup Costs until ERCOT receives and approves comparable Resource specific verifiable costs.  
(f)	PPAs will no longer be accepted as verifiable cost documentation after the primary term of the contract expires. 
(g)	ERCOT shall produce a report each April that provides the percentage of RUC Make-Whole Payments for Resources with PPAs during the 12 months of the previous calendar year.  If there are no Make-Whole Payments for Resources with PPAs, ERCOT shall not produce the annual report.  The report shall be based on the final Settlements and include the total number of Resources that used a PPA for their most recent verifiable cost submission that was approved by ERCOT.  ERCOT shall present the results of this study to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee.
(h)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5.6.1, QSEs representing PPAs may, at any time, submit data from a Resource as verifiable costs documentation and such documentation will be accepted for consideration by ERCOT.  A QSE submitting verifiable costs documentation pursuant to this paragraph shall not be required to submit a PPA to ERCOT for consideration for verifiable cost recovery.
(9)	ERCOT shall notify a QSE to update verifiable cost data of a Resource when the Resource has received more than 50 RUC instructions meeting the criteria in Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility, in a year, but ERCOT may not request an update more frequently than annually. 
(10)	ERCOT shall notify a QSE to update verifiable cost data of a Resource if at least five years have passed since ERCOT previously approved verifiable cost data for that Resource. 
(11)	Within 30 days after receiving an update Notice from ERCOT under either paragraph (9) or (10) above, a QSE or Resource Entity must submit verifiable cost data for the Resource.  Despite the provisions in paragraph (2) above, if the QSE or Resource Entity does not submit verifiable cost data within 30 days after receiving an update Notice, then ERCOT shall determine payment using the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap, Resource Category Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Cap, and a zeroed value for variable O&M cost as described in Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap, in accordance with the schedule established in this section until updated verifiable costs are approved.  If the 30-day deadline has been reached before the start of the tenth day before the end of the month, the Resource’s verifiable costs will revert back to generic costs beginning on the first day of the following month.  If the 30-day deadline falls within the last ten days of the month, the Resource’s verifiable costs will revert back to generic costs on the first day of the second month following the deadline month.
(12) 	Notwithstanding the foregoing, QSEs and Resource Entities shall not submit verifiable costs for Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).
5.6.1.1	Verifiable Startup Costs
(1)	The unit-specific verifiable costs for starting a Resource for each cold, intermediate, and hot start condition, as determined using the data submitted under Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, and the Resource Parameters for the Resource are: 
(a) 	Actual fuel consumption rate per start (MMBtu/start) multiplied by a resource fuel price plus consideration of a fuel adder that compensates for the transportation and purchasing of spot fuel as described in the Verifiable Cost Manual; and
(b) 	Unit-specific verifiable or standard O&M expenses.
5.6.1.2	Verifiable Minimum-Energy Costs 
(1)	The unit-specific verifiable minimum-energy costs for a Resource are: 
(a)	Actual fuel cost to operate the unit at its LSL including a fuel adder that compensates for the transportation and purchasing of spot fuel as described in the Verifiable Cost Manual; plus
(b)	Verifiable or standard variable O&M expenses.
(2)	The QSE must submit the Resource’s cost information by Season if the Resource’s costs vary by Season.  For gas-fired units, the actual fuel costs must be calculated using the actual Seasonal heat rate (which must be supplied to ERCOT with Seasonal heat-rate test data) multiplied by the fuel price plus consideration of a fuel adder that compensates for the transportation and purchasing of spot fuel as described in the Verifiable Cost Manual.  For coal- and lignite-fired units, the actual fuel costs must be calculated using the actual Seasonal heat rate multiplied by a deemed fuel price of $1.50 per MMBtu.  For fuel oil-fired operations, the number of gallons burned must be multiplied by the FOP.
5.6.2	RUC Startup Cost Eligibility
(1)	For purposes of this Section 5.6.2, all contiguous RUC-Committed Hours are considered as one RUC instruction.  For each Resource, only one Startup Cost is eligible per block of contiguous RUC-Committed Hours.
(2)	For a Resource’s Startup Costs in the Operating Day, per RUC instruction, to be included in the calculation of the RUC guarantee for that Operating Day, all the criteria below must be met: 
(a)	According to the Current Operating Plan (COP) and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process that committed the Resource, the Resource must not be QSE-committed in the Settlement Interval immediately before the designated start hour or after the last hour of the RUC instruction;
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(a)	According to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process that committed the Resource, the Resource must not be QSE-committed in the Settlement Interval immediately before the designated start hour or after the last hour of the RUC instruction;
(b)	A later RUC instruction or QSE commitment must not connect the designated start hour or last hour of the RUC instruction to a block of QSE-committed Intervals that was QSE-committed before the RUC instruction was given, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process that committed the Resource;
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	A later RUC instruction or QSE commitment must not connect the designated start hour or last hour of the RUC instruction to a block of QSE-committed Intervals that was QSE-committed before the RUC instruction was given, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process that committed the Resource;
(c)	The generation breakers must have been open, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of Off-Line, for at least five minutes during the six hours preceding the first RUC-Committed Hour; and
(d)	The generation breakers must have been closed, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of On-Line, for at least one minute during the RUC commitment period or after the determined five-minute open breaker, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of Off-Line, in the six hours preceding the first RUC-Committed Hour.
(3)	Notwithstanding paragraphs (2)(c) and (2)(d) above, the QSE of a RUC-committed Resource may submit a Settlement dispute for a Resource’s Startup Costs in the Operating Day, per RUC instruction, to be included in the calculation of the RUC guarantee for that Operating Day if the startup time for the RUC-committed Resource is greater than six hours.  The dispute is subject to verification and approval by ERCOT based on the criteria below:
(a)	The generation breakers must have been open, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of Off-Line, for at least five minutes between the time the QSE is notified of the RUC instruction and the first RUC-Committed Hour;
(b)	The generation breakers must have been closed, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of On-Line, for at least one minute during the RUC commitment period or after the five-minute open breaker determined in item (a) above;
(c)	The breaker open-close sequence from items (a) and (b) above does not make the Resource eligible for Startup Cost compensation in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or for any other contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours; and
(d)	The startup time used to process the dispute will be the startup time considered by the ERCOT Operator at the time the RUC instruction was issued.
(4)	For purposes of this Section 5.6.2, the telemetered Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as Off-Line.
(5)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the DAM and subsequently receives a RUC commitment for the Operating Hour for which it was awarded will be settled in accordance with Section 4.6.2.3, Day-Ahead Make-Whole Settlements.
5.6.3	Forced Outage of a RUC-Committed Resource
(1)	The calculation of a Make-Whole Payment for a RUC-committed Resource that is eligible to receive startup costs under Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility, and that experiences a Forced Outage after unit synchronization is governed by Section 5.6.2.
(2)	If a RUC-committed Resource, which Resource is eligible to include startup costs in its RUC guarantee under Section 5.6.2 without considering the criteria in item (2)(d) of Section 5.6.2, experiences startup failure that creates a Forced Outage before breaker close, ERCOT shall include the Resource’s submitted and approved verifiable actual costs in the Resource’s RUC guarantee, limited to the lesser of: 
(a)	Costs that qualify as normal startup expenses, including fuel and operation and maintenance expenses, incurred before the event that caused the Forced Outage; or
(b)	Resource’s Startup Offer in the RUC. 
(3)	The process for determining the verifiable actual costs for a startup attempt under item (2) above is described in the Verifiable Cost Manual. 
(4)	The verifiable actual costs for a startup attempt under item (2) above shall only be included in the Resource’s RUC guarantee upon QSE notification of the startup attempt under item (2) and approval of the verifiable actual costs under item (3) above.
5.6.4	Cancellation of a RUC Commitment
(1)	The calculation of payment for a RUC-committed Resource that is issued a RUC Cancellation instruction for the RUC commitment from ERCOT prior to breaker close shall be paid through the RUC Decommitment Payment as described in Section 5.7.3, Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource. 
(2)	A RUC-committed Resource that receives a RUC Cancellation instruction prior to breaker close may submit through the dispute process all incremental expenses associated with the RUC Cancellation of the RUC-committed Resource.  These costs include all costs that qualify as normal Startup Costs, O&M expenses and associated fuel expenses incurred for any attempted start.
(3)	The process for determining the verifiable actual costs for a RUC cancellation is described in the Verifiable Cost Manual.
5.6.5	Settlement for Canceled or Delayed Outages for Outage Schedule Adjustments (OSAs)
5.6.5.1	Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs
(1) 	If ERCOT issues an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) pursuant to Section 3.1.4.6, Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions, or Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities, ERCOT shall pay the QSE representing the Resource a Make-Whole Payment as calculated in Section 5.6.5.2, RUC Make-Whole Payment and RUC Clawback Charge for Resources Receiving OSAs, if the QSE has:
(a)	Submitted a Settlement and billing dispute consistent with the dispute process described in Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process; and 
(b)	Submitted the following within 60 days of the issuance of a Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Statement for an Operating Day on which one or more OSAs was in effect for the Resource: 
(i)	An attestation signed by an officer or executive with authority to bind the QSE stating that the information contained in the submission is accurate;
(ii)	The dollar amount and calculation of the net financial loss, if applicable, by Settlement Interval for:
(A)	Actual and indirect costs incurred due to delaying or canceling and rescheduling the Outage.  Such costs include, but are not limited to: 
(1)	Additional staff or contractor time;
(2)	Costs associated with re-planning the Outage;
(3)	Costs of equipment rental (including but not limited to cranes, manlifts, welding machines, etc.);
(4)	Costs of facility rentals and other incidental incremental costs incurred by the Resource, its QSE, or its fuel supplier (e.g. mine-related expenses) created by the cancellation or delay of the Outage; and
(5)	Indirect costs necessary for moving any additional Outages due to the OSA.
(B)	Costs covered by paragraph (A) above do not include:
(1)	The cost of materials due to be installed during the Outage.  Such equipment will presumably be installed at a later date in a rescheduled or delayed Outage; and 
(2) 	All loss amounts associated with the Outage Resource as a result of any financial transaction, including selling or repurchasing a hedge (whether the hedge is for energy, Ancillary Services, or fuel); and
(iii)	Sufficient documentation to support the QSE’s calculation of all submitted costs.
5.6.5.2	RUC Make-Whole Payment and RUC Clawback Charge for Resources Receiving OSAs
(1)	To compensate QSEs representing Resources that submitted a timely Settlement and billing dispute, ERCOT shall calculate a RUC Guarantee for an Operating Day for the OSA Period to be used in the RUC Settlements process and allocated to each instructed Operating Hour as follows:
(a)	For a Resource with RUC instructions issued for hours during the OSA Period, the RUC Guarantee calculated for the RUC-Committed Hours shall include the following: 	
(i)	Eligible Startup costs per Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility;
(ii)	Minimum-energy costs;
(iii)	10% of both Startup costs and minimum-energy costs; and
(iv)	Approved net financial loss as defined in Section 5.6.5.1, Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs.
(b)	For a Resource without RUC Instructions issued for hours during the OSA Period, ERCOT shall create RUC instructions for all hours of the OSA Period for Settlement purposes only.  The created RUC instructions will be assigned to the first RUC process of each Operating Day.  The RUC Guarantee shall include only the following:
(i)	Approved net financial loss as defined in Section 5.6.5.1.
(c)	For a Resource that rescheduled an Outage within 120 days of the end of the OSA Period under paragraph (4) of Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities, the RUC Guarantee determined in paragraphs (a) and (b) above must include an OSA Make-Whole Cost (OSAMW), calculated for the same corresponding OSA Period hours, when the Outage is rescheduled due to the OSA, starting with the first day of the rescheduled Outage period.  The OSAMW calculated for the rescheduled Outage hours shall be allocated to the corresponding RUC instructed hours, in paragraphs (a) or (b) above, on a day-by-day basis.  The OSAMW shall be calculated as follows:
OSAMW q, r, d   =  (Max (0, (RTSPP – MOC q, r, h)) * HSL q, r, h * (¼))
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
OSAMW q, r, d   	$	OSA Make-Whole Cost—The OSA Make-Whole cost for Resource r represented by QSE q during the eligible rescheduled Outage Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources receive an OSA, the Make-Whole cost is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for the OSA Period.
RTSPP	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Settlement Point for the 15-minute Settlement Interval of an eligible rescheduled Outage Hour.
MOC q, r, h	$/MWh	Mitigated Offer Cap per Resource—The MOC for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the eligible rescheduled Outage hour h at the High Sustained Limit (HSL) as submitted in the COP. Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
HSL q, r, i	MW	High Sustained Limit—The HSL of a Generation Resource r represented by QSE q as submitted in the COP, for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a combined cycle Resource, r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A Generation Resource.
d	none	The Operating Day.
h	none	The Operating Hour. 
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour.
(2) 	Notwithstanding the clawback provisions described in Section 5.7.2, RUC Clawback Charge, the clawback percentage shall be set at 100%.
5.6.5.3	Timeline for Calculating RUC Clawback Charges for Resources Receiving OSAs
(1)	Within ten Business Days after the issuance of the RTM True-Up Statement, ERCOT will issue a Miscellaneous Invoice to charge the QSE representing the Resource that has received an OSA the excess revenues not clawed back in RUC Settlements.
(2)	All clawed back revenues will be paid to QSEs based on a 15-minute Load-Ratio Share basis.
5.7	Settlement for RUC Process
5.7.1	RUC Make-Whole Payment
(1)	To make up the difference when the revenues that a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-committed Resource receives are less than its costs as described in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT shall calculate a RUC Make-Whole Payment for that Operating Day for that Resource (whether committed by Day-Ahead RUC (DRUC) or Hourly RUC (HRUC)).
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	To make up the difference when the revenues that a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-committed Resource receives are less than its costs as described in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT shall calculate a RUC Make-Whole Payment for that Operating Day for that Resource (whether committed by Day-Ahead RUC (DRUC) or Hourly RUC (HRUC)).  ERCOT shall not calculate or pay a RUC Make-Whole Payment for an Energy Storage Resource (ESR).
(2)	ERCOT shall pay to the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for the Resource a Make-Whole Payment if the RUC Guarantee calculated in Section 5.7.1.1, RUC Guarantee, is greater than the sum of:
(a)	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue calculated in Section 5.7.1.2, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue;
(b)	Revenue less cost above Low Sustained Limited (LSL) during RUC-Committed Hours calculated in Section 5.7.1.3, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours; and 
(c)	Revenue less cost during QSE Clawback Intervals calculated in Section 5.7.1.4, Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals. 
(3)	The RUC Make-Whole Payment to the QSE for each RUC-committed Resource, including Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units, for each RUC-Committed Hour in an Operating Day is calculated as follows:
RUCMWAMTq,r,h	=	(-1) * Max (0, RUCGq,r,d – RUCMEREVq,r,d – RUCEXRRq,r,d – RUCEXRQCq,r,d) / RUCHRq,r,d
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCMWAMTq,r,h	$	RUC Make-Whole Payment—The RUC Make-Whole Payment to the QSE for Resource r, for each RUC-Committed Hour of the Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCGq,r,d	$	RUC Guarantee—The sum of eligible Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for Resource r during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day.  See Section 5.7.1.1.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, guaranteed costs are calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCMEREVq,r,d	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue—The sum of the energy revenues for Resource r’s generation up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day.  See Section 5.7.1.2.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, minimum-energy revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRRq,r,d	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day.  See Section 5.7.1.3.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRQCq,r,d	$	Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r less the cost during all QSE Clawback Intervals, for the Operating Day.  See Section 5.7.1.4.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost during QSE Clawback Intervals is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources earning revenue in QSE Clawback Intervals.
RUCHRq,r,d	None	RUC Hour—The total number of RUC-Committed Hours, for Resource r for the Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the total number of RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	None	A QSE.
r	None	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	None	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
h	None	An hour in the RUC-commitment period.
5.7.1.1	RUC Guarantee
(1)	The allowable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs of a Resource committed by RUC is the RUC Guarantee.  The RUC Guarantee minimum-energy costs are prorated according to the actual generation when the Resource’s average output during a 15-minute Settlement Interval is below the corresponding LSL.
(2)	The SUPR, MEPR and LSL used to calculate the RUC Guarantee for a Combined Cycle Train are the SUPR, MEPR and LSL that correspond to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within the Combined Cycle Train, that is RUC-committed for the hour.  If the RUC-Committed Interval is a RUC for Additional Capacity (RUCAC)-Interval, then the SUPR, MEPR, and LSL that corresponds to the QSE-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource is also used to calculate RUC Guarantee for a Combined Cycle Train.
(3)	For an Aggregate Generation Resource (AGR), the Startup Cost shall be scaled according to the maximum number of its generators online during a contiguous block of RUC-committed intervals, as indicated by telemetry, compared to the total number of generators registered to the AGR and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.
(4)	The RUC Guarantee is calculated for non-Combined Cycle Trains as follows: 
RUCG q, r, d	=	  (SUPR q, r, s * RUCSUFLAG q, r, s) +  (MEPR q, r, i * Min ((LSL q, r, i * (¼)), RTMG q, r, i))
(5)	The RUC Guarantee is calculated for Combined Cycle Trains as follows:
RUCG q, r, d	=	(SUPR q, r, s * RUCSUFLAG q, r, s) + 
		 (MAX (0, SUPR - SUPR)) +  (RUCGME q, r, i)
Where,
	If a Combined Cycle Train transitions to a RUC-committed configuration from a QSE-committed or other RUC-committed configuration between two contiguous hours, or to a RUC-committed configuration from a QSE-committed configuration within the same hour due to a RUCAC, the transition is calculated as follows:
MAX (0, SUPR afterCCGR – SUPR beforeCCGR)
	If a Combined Cycle Train transitions to a QSE-committed configuration from a RUC-committed configuration, the transition is calculated as follows:
MAX (0, SUPR beforeCCGR – SUPR afterCCGR)
If the interval i is a RUC-Committed Interval that is not a RUCAC, then:
RUCGME q, r, i	=  MEPR q, r, i * Min ((LSL q, r, i * (¼)), RTMG q, r, i)
If the interval i is a RUCAC of a previously QSE-Committed Interval, then:
RUCGME q, r, i	=  Max [0, MEPR q, afterCCGR, i * Min ((LSL q, afterCCGR, i * 
		(¼)), RTMG q, r, i) – MEPR q, beforeCCGR, i * (LSL q, beforeCCGR, i * (¼))]
(6)	If a validated Three-Part Supply Offer has been submitted for a Resource for the RUC, then the RUC Guarantee for that Resource is based on the minimum of the Startup Offer in that validated Three-Part Supply Offer and Startup Cap and the lesser of the Minimum-Energy Offer in that validated Three-Part Supply Offer and the Minimum-Energy Offer Cap.  If a validated Three-Part Supply Offer has not been submitted for a Resource for the RUC and ERCOT has not yet approved verifiable unit-specific costs for the Resource, then the RUC Guarantee for a Resource is based on the Resource Category Startup Generic Cap and the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap.  If a validated Three-Part Supply Offer has not been submitted for a Resource for the RUC and ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific costs for the Resource, then the RUC Guarantee for a Resource is based on the most recent ERCOT-approved verifiable unit-specific costs for that Resource.
For a Resource which is not an AGR, 
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer, 
	Then, 		SUPR q, r, s	=	Min (SUO q, r, s, SUCAP q, r, s)
			MEPR q, r, i	=	Min (MEO q, r, i, MECAP q, r, i)
	Otherwise, 	SUPR q, r, s 	= 	SUCAP q, r, s
			MEPR q, r, i 	= 	MECAP q, r, i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
	Then, 		SUCAP q, r, s	=	verifiable Startup Costs q, r, s
			MECAP q, r, i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
	Otherwise, 	SUCAP q, r, s 	= 	RCGSC s
			MECAP q, r, i	= 	RCGMEC i
For AGRs,
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer, 
Then, 		SUPR  q, r, s	=	Min (SUO q, r, s, SUCAP q, r, s)
			MEPR q, r, i	=	Min (MEO q, r, i, MECAP q, r, i)
	Otherwise, 	SUPR q, r, s 	= 	SUCAP q, r, s
			MEPR q, r, i 	= 	MECAP q, r, i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
	Then, 		SUCAP q, r, s	=	Max c (AGRRATIO q, p, r) * verifiable Startup Costs q, r, s
			MECAP q, r, i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
	Where, 		AGRRATIO q, p, r	 =	AGRMAXON q, p, r / AGRTOT q, p, r
	Otherwise, 	SUCAP q, r, s 	= 	Max c (AGRRATIO q, p, r) * RCGSC s
			MECAP q, r, i	= 	RCGMEC i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCG q, r, d	$	RUC Guarantee—The sum of eligible Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for Resource r represented by QSE q during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, guaranteed costs are calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCGME q, r, i	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Guarantee by interval—The guaranteed costs for Resource r represented by QSE q for minimum energy for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Guarantee is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.  During RUCAC-Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train, minimum energy cost is calculated as the difference between the minimum energy cost between the RUC-committed configuration and the QSE-committed configuration.
SUPR q, r, s	$/Start	Startup Price per start—The Settlement price for Resource r represented by QSE q for the start s.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
SUO q, r, s	$/Start	Startup Offer per start—Represents an offer for all costs incurred by Generation Resource r represented by QSE q in starting up and reaching the Resource’s LSL for the start s.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
SUCAP q, r, s	$/Start	Startup Cap—The amount used for AGR r or Resource r represented by QSE q for the start s as Startup Costs.  The cap is the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap (RCGSC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific Startup Costs for that Resource, in which case the startup cap is the scaled verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost for the AGR or the verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost for non-AGRs.  The verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost will be determined as described in Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, minus the average energy produced during the time period between breaker close and LSL multiplied by the heat rate proxy “H” multiplied by the appropriate Fuel Index Price (FIP), Fuel Oil Price (FOP) or solid fuel price, for AGR and non-AGR Resources.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
AGRRATIO q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Ratio per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—A value which represents the ratio of the maximum number of generators online during an hour, as indicated by telemetry, compared to the total number of generators registered to the AGR r represented by QSE q at the Settlement Point p and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.  The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
AGRMAXON q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Maximum Online per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—The maximum number of generators registered to the AGR r represented by QSE q at the Settlement Point p online during an hour, as indicated by telemetry.  The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
AGRTOT q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Total per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—The total number of generators registered to the AGR r represented by QSE q at the Settlement Point p and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.  The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
RCGSC s	$/Start	Resource Category Generic Startup Cost—The Resource Category Generic Startup Cost cap for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, for the Operating Day.
RUCSUFLAG q, r, s	none	RUC Startup Flag—The flag that indicates whether or not the start s for Resource r represented by QSE q is eligible for RUC Make-Whole Payment.  Its value is one if eligible; otherwise, zero.  See Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility, and Section 5.6.3, Forced Outage of RUC-Committed Resource, for more information on startup eligibility.  For a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r must be one of the registered Combined Cycle Generation Resources within the Combined Cycle Train.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the RUC Startup Flag is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
MEPR q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Price—The Settlement price for Resource r represented by QSE q for minimum energy for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MEO q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Offer—Represents an offer for the costs incurred by Resource r represented by QSE q in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MECAP q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Cap—The amount used for Resource r represented by QSE q for the Settlement Interval i for minimum-energy costs.  The minimum cost is the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap (RCGMEC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific minimum energy costs for that Resource, in which case the Minimum-Energy Cap is the verifiable unit-specific minimum energy cost.  See Section 5.6.1 for more information on verifiable costs.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGMEC i	$/MWh	Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost—The Resource Category Generic Minimum Energy Cost cap for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, for the Operating Day.
RTMG q, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation—The metered generation of Resource r represented by QSE q for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
LSL q, r, i	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the Current Operating Plan (COP).  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUC-commitment.
s	none	A start that is eligible to have its costs included in the RUC Guarantee.
t	none	A transition that is eligible to have its costs included in the RUC Guarantee.
c	none	A contiguous block of RUC–Committed Hours.
afterCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource to which a Combined Cycle Train transitions.
beforeCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource from which a Combined Cycle Train transitions.
5.7.1.2	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue
(1)	The energy revenue for a Resource’s generation up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours of the Operating Day is RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue.
(2)	The LSL used to calculate RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue for a Combined Cycle Train is the LSL that corresponds to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within the Combined Cycle Train, that is RUC-committed for the hour.  If the interval is a RUCAC-Interval, then the LSL that corresponds to the QSE-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource is also used to calculate RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue for a Combined Cycle Train.
(3)	For each RUC-committed Resource, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated as follows:
RUCMEREVq,r,d	=	 (RUCMEREV96 q, r, i)
Where,
If the interval i is a RUC-Committed Interval that is not a RUCAC-Interval, then:
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i  = RTSPP p, i * Min (RTMG q, r, i, (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))
If the interval i is a RUCAC of a previously QSE-Committed Interval, then:
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i  =  RTSPP p, i * Max [0, Min (RTMG q, r, i, (LSL q, afterCCGR, i * (¼))) -  LSL q, beforeCCGR, i * (¼)]
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCMEREV q, r, d	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue—The sum of the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue by interval—The energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.  During RUCAC-Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train, the minimum energy revenue is calculated as the difference between the minimum energy revenue of the RUC-committed configuration and the QSE-committed configuration.
RTSPP p, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Resource Node Settlement Point p for the Settlement Interval i.
RTMG q, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation—The metered generation of Resource r represented by QSE q for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
LSL q, r, i	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the COP.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUC-commitment.
afterCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is RUC-committed.
beforeCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was QSE-committed.

5.7.1.3	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours
(1)	The total revenue for a Resource operating above its LSL less the cost based on the Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap (as described in Section 4.4.9.3.3, Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps) during all RUC-Committed Hours of the Operating Day is Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours.  
(2)	The LSL used to calculate Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours for a Combined Cycle Train is the LSL that corresponds to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within the Combined Cycle Train, that is RUC-committed for the hour. 
(3)	For each RUC-committed Resource, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours is calculated as follows:
RUCEXRR q, r, d   =   Max {0,  [RUCEXRR96 q, r, i]}
Where,
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i  =	RTSPP p, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼))) 
			+ (-1) * (VSSVARAMT q, r, i + VSSEAMT q, r, i)
			+ (-1) * EMREAMT q, r, i 
			– RTEOCOST q, r, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))]}
[NPRR1009, NPRR1014, and NPRR1140:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1140:]
(3)	For each RUC-committed Resource, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours is calculated as follows:

If RUCFCA exists:

RUCEXRR q, r, d   =    [RUCEXRR96 q, r, i]
Otherwise:
RUCEXRR q, r, d   =   Max {0,  [RUCEXRR96 q, r, i]}
Where,
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i  =	RTSPP p, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))                   + RTASREV q, r, i
		+ (-1) * (VSSVARAMT q, r, i + VSSEAMT q, r, i)
		+ (-1) * EMREAMT q, r, i 
		– (RTEOCOST q, r, i + RUCFCA q, r, i) * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))
Where, 
RTASREV q, r, i = RTRUREV q, r, i + RTRDREV q, r, i + RTRRREV q, r, i + RTECRREV q, r, i + RTNSREV q, r, i
And, 
RUCFCA q, r, i = Max(0, Volume-weighted average actual fuel price q, r, i * Average heat rate – RTEOCOST q, r, i)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCEXRR q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours by interval—The total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RTSPP p, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Resource’s Resource Node Settlement Point p for the Settlement Interval i.
RTEOCOST q, r, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Energy Offer Curve Cost CapThe Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the Resource’s generation above the LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  See Section 4.4.9.3.3.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTMG q, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation—The metered generation of Resource r represented by QSE q for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1140:  Insert the variable “RUCFCA q, r, i” below upon system implementation:]
RUCFCA q, r, i	$/MWh	Reliability Unit Commitment Fuel Cost Adder—For a QSE that has been granted a fuel dispute per Section 9.14.7, Disputes for RUC Make-Whole Payment for Fuel Costs, the fuel cost adder is calculated as the volume-weighted average actual fuel price times the output-level average heat rate for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the Resource’s generation above LSL, for the Settlement Interval i, minus the RTEOCOST.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUCFCA is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-Committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources. 
The average heat rate for the Resource is the Average Heat Rate at the output level at Settlement Interval i, resulting from the input-output coefficients submitted with verifiable costs, if available, otherwise the heat rate value defined in Section 4.4.9.3.3.  
The volume-weighted average actual fuel price must be proven by the QSE by submitting a dispute per Section 9.14.7.  


LSL q, r, i	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the COP.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Insert applicable variables below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
RTASREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Ancillary Service Revenue — The total Real-Time Ancillary Service revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRUREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Reg-Up Revenue — The Real-Time Reg-Up revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Payment or Charge.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRDREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Reg-Down Revenue — The Real-Time Reg-Down revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRRREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Responsive Reserve Revenue — The Real-Time RRS revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTNSREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Non-Spin Revenue — The Real-Time Non-Spin revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTECRREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Revenue — The Real-Time ECRS revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.


VSSVARAMT q, r, i	$	Voltage Support Service VAr Amount by interval—The payment to the QSE q for the Voltage Support Service (VSS) provided by Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Voltage Support Service VAr Amount—The payment to the QSE q for the Voltage Support Service (VSS) provided by Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.

VSSEAMT q, r, i	$	Voltage Support Service Energy Amount by interval—The lost opportunity payment to the QSE q for ERCOT-directed VSS from the Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Voltage Support Service Energy Amount—The lost opportunity payment to the QSE q for ERCOT-directed VSS from the Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.

EMREAMT q, r, i	$	Emergency Energy Amount by interval—The payment to the QSE q as additional compensation for the additional energy produced by the Generation Resource r in Real-Time during the Emergency Condition, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Power Increase Directed by ERCOT.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Emergency Energy Amount—The payment to the QSE q as additional compensation for the additional energy or Ancillary Services produced or consumed by the Resource r in Real-Time during the Emergency Condition, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Operations Settlement.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.

q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUC instruction.
5.7.1.4	Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals
(1)	The total revenue for a Resource less the cost based on the Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap as described in Section 4.4.9.3.3, Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps, during all QSE Clawback Intervals of the Operating Day is Revenue Less Cost During QSE-Clawback Intervals. 
(2)	The MEPR and LSL used to calculate Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train is the MEPR and LSL that corresponds to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within a Combined Cycle Train, that operates in Real-Time for the QSE Clawback Interval.
(3)	For each QSE Clawback Interval, Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals is calculated as follows:
RUCEXRQC q, r, d		=  Max {0,  [(RTSPP p, i * RTMG q, r, i)
+ (-1) * (VSSVARAMT q, r, i + VSSEAMT q, r, i)
			+ (-1) * EMREAMT q, r, i
			– [MEPR q, r, i * Min (RTMG q, r, i, (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))] 
			– [RTEOCOST q, r, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))]]}  
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer for the Resource, 
	Then, 		MEPR q, r, i	=	Min (MEO q, r, i, MECAP q, r, i)
	Otherwise, 	MEPR q, r, i 	= 	MECAP q, r, i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
	Then,		MECAP q, r, i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
	Otherwise, 	MECAP q, r, i	= 	RCGMEC i
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the formula “RUCEXRQC q, r, d” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
RUCEXRQC q, r, d		=  Max {0,  [(RTSPP p, i * RTMG q, r, i)
			+ RTASREVq, r, i
			+ (-1) * (VSSVARAMT q, r, i + VSSEAMT q, r, i)
		   + (-1) * EMREAMT q, r, i
		   – [MEPR q, r, i * Min (RTMG q, r, i, (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))] 
		   – [RTEOCOST q, r, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))]]}  
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer for the Resource, 
	Then, 		MEPR q, r, i	=	Min (MEO q, r, i, MECAP q, r, i)
	Otherwise, 	MEPR q, r, i 	= 	MECAP q, r, i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
	Then,		MECAP q, r, i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
	Otherwise, 	MECAP q, r, i	= 	RCGMEC i
Where, 
RTASREV q, r, i = RTRUREV q, r, i + RTRDREV q, r, i + RTRRREV q, r, i + RTECRREV q, r, i  +  RTNSREV q, r, i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCEXRQC q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost During QSE-Clawback Intervals—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r less the cost during all QSE-Clawback Intervals for the Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost During QSE-Clawback Intervals is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources earning revenue in QSE-Clawback Intervals.
RTSPP p, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Resource’s Settlement Point for the Settlement Interval i.
MEPR q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Price—The Settlement price for Resource r for minimum energy for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MEO q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Offer—Represents an offer for the costs incurred by Resource r in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MECAP q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Cap—The amount used for Resource r for minimum-energy costs.  The minimum cost is the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap (RCGMEC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific minimum energy costs for that Resource, in which case the Minimum-Energy Cap is the verifiable unit-specific minimum energy cost.  See Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, for more information on verifiable costs.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGMEC i	$/MWh	Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost—The Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost cap for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, for the Operating Day.
RTEOCOST q, r, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Energy Offer Curve Cost CapThe Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the Resource’s generation above the LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  See Section 4.4.9.3.3.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.

RTMG q, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation—The Resource r’s metered generation for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
LSL q, r, i	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the COP.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Insert applicable portions of the variables below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
RTASREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Ancillary Service Revenue — The total Real-Time Ancillary Service revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRUREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Reg-Up Revenue — The Real-Time Reg-Up revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Payment or Charge.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRDREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Reg-Down Revenue — The Real-Time Reg-Down revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRRREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Responsive Reserve Revenue — The Real-Time RRS revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTNSREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Non-Spin Revenue — The Real-Time Non-Spin revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTECRREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Revenue — The Real-Time ECRS revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.


VSSVARAMT q, r, i	$	Voltage Support Service VAr Amount by interval—The payment to the QSE for the VSS provided by Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Voltage Support Service VAr Amount—The payment to the QSE for the VSS provided by Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.

VSSEAMT q, r, i	$	Voltage Support Service Energy Amount by interval—The lost opportunity payment to the QSE for ERCOT-directed VSS from the Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.  
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Voltage Support Service Energy Amount—The lost opportunity payment to the QSE for ERCOT-directed VSS from the Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.  

EMREAMT q, r, i	$	Emergency Energy Amount by interval—The payment to the QSE as additional compensation for the additional energy produced by the Generation Resource r in Real-Time during the Emergency Condition, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Power Increase Directed by ERCOT.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Emergency Energy Amount—The payment to the QSE as additional compensation for the additional energy or Ancillary Services produced or consumed by the Resource r in Real-Time during the Emergency Condition, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Operations Settlement.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.  
  
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that is identified as a QSE-Clawback Interval.
5.7.2	RUC Clawback Charge
(1)	A QSE for a Resource shall pay a RUC Clawback Charge for the Operating Day if the RUC Guarantee is less than the sum of:
(a)	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue calculated in Section 5.7.1.2, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue;
(b)	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours calculated in Section 5.7.1.3, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours; and 
(c)	Revenue Less Cost During QSE-Clawback Intervals calculated in Section 5.7.1.4, Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals. 
(2)	The amount of the RUC Clawback Charge is 100% of the difference calculated in paragraph (1) above.
[NPRR1172:  Delete paragraph (2) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(3)	The RUC Clawback Charge for a Resource, including RMR Units, for each Operating Day is allocated evenly over the RUC-Committed Hours for that Resource.  
[NPRR1014:  Insert paragraph (4) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(4)	Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) are not subject to RUC Clawback Charges. 
(4)	For each RUC-committed Resource, the RUC Clawback Charge for each RUC-Committed Hour of the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
If (RUCMEREV q, r, d + RUCEXRR q, r, d – RUCACREV q, r, d – RUCG q, r, d) > 0, 
Then,
RUCCBAMT q, r, h	=	[(RUCMEREV q, r, d + RUCEXRR q, r, d – RUCACREV q, r, d – RUCG q, r, d) * RUCCBFR q, r, d + RUCEXRQC q, r, d * RUCCBFC q, r, d] / RUCHR q, r, d 
Otherwise, 
RUCCBAMT q, r, h 	=	[Max (0, RUCMEREV q, r, d + RUCEXRR q, r, d + RUCEXRQC q, r, d –  RUCACREV q, r, d – RUCG q, r, d) * RUCCBFC q, r, d] / RUCHR q, r, d
Where, 
The RUCAC revenue is calculated for a Combined Cycle Train as follows:
RUCACREV q, r, d	=  Max{0,  RUCMEREV96 q, r, i + Max(0,  RUCEXRR96 q, r, i)}  
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCCBAMT q, r, h	$	RUC Clawback Charge––The RUC Clawback Charge to a QSE for Resource r represented by QSE q as described in this Section, for each RUC-Committed Hour h of the Operating Day for that Resource.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, a charge is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCG q, r, d	$	RUC Guarantee—The sum of eligible Startup Costs and Minimum-Energy Costs for Resource r represented by QSE q during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.1, RUC Guarantee.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, guaranteed costs are calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCMEREV q, r, d	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue—The sum of the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.2.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRR q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q above the LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.3.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRQC q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost from QSE-Clawback Intervals—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q less the cost during all QSE-Clawback Intervals for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.4.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost from QSE-Clawback Intervals is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources earning revenue in QSE Clawback Intervals.
RUCACREV q, r, d	$	Revenue from RUCAC Hours—The net positive sum for the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL and the total revenue for Resource r operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUCAC-Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are RUCAC, revenue from RUCAC Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources that were RUC-committed during the RUCAC-Hours.
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue by Interval—The energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.  During RUCAC-Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train, the minimum energy revenue is calculated as the difference between the minimum energy revenue of the RUC-committed configuration and the QSE-committed configuration.
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours by Interval—The total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCCBFR q, r, d	none	RUC Clawback Factor for RUC-Committed Hours—The Clawback Factor for Resource r represented by QSE q for RUC-Committed Hours, as specified in paragraph (2) above, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the RUC Clawback Factor for RUC-Committed Hours is determined for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCCBFC q, r, d	none	RUC Clawback Factor for QSE Clawback Intervals—The Clawback Factor for Resource r represented by QSE q for QSE Clawback Intervals, as specified in paragraph (2) above, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the RUC Clawback Factor for QSE Clawback Intervals is determined for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCHR q, r, d	none	RUC Hour—The total number of RUC-Committed Hours, for Resource r represented by QSE q for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the total number of RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
h	none	An hour in the RUC-commitment period.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUCAC instruction.

[NPRR1172:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	For each RUC-committed Resource, the RUC Clawback Charge for each RUC-Committed Hour of the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
RUCCBAMT q, r, h 	=	Max (0, RUCMEREV q, r, d + RUCEXRR q, r, d + RUCEXRQC q, r, d –  RUCACREV q, r, d – RUCG q, r, d) / RUCHR q, r, d
Where, 
The RUCAC revenue is calculated for a Combined Cycle Train as follows:
RUCACREV q, r, d	=  Max{0,   RUCMEREV96 q, r, i + Max(0,  RUCEXRR96 q, r, i)}  
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCCBAMT q, r, h	$	RUC Clawback Charge––The RUC Clawback Charge to a QSE for Resource r represented by QSE q as described in this Section, for each RUC-Committed Hour h of the Operating Day for that Resource.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, a charge is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCG q, r, d	$	RUC Guarantee—The sum of eligible Startup Costs and Minimum-Energy Costs for Resource r represented by QSE q during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.1, RUC Guarantee.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, guaranteed costs are calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCMEREV q, r, d	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue—The sum of the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.2.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRR q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q above the LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.3.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRQC q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost from QSE-Clawback Intervals—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q less the cost during all QSE-Clawback Intervals for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.4.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost from QSE-Clawback Intervals is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources earning revenue in QSE Clawback Intervals.
RUCACREV q, r, d	$	Revenue from RUCAC Hours—The net positive sum for the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL and the total revenue for Resource r operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUCAC-Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are RUCAC, revenue from RUCAC Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources that were RUC-committed during the RUCAC-Hours.
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue by Interval—The energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.  During RUCAC-Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train, the minimum energy revenue is calculated as the difference between the minimum energy revenue of the RUC-committed configuration and the QSE-committed configuration.
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours by Interval—The total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCHR q, r, d	none	RUC Hour—The total number of RUC-Committed Hours, for Resource r represented by QSE q for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the total number of RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
h	none	An hour in the RUC-commitment period.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUCAC instruction.

5.7.3	Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource 
(1)	If ERCOT decommits a QSE-committed Resource during the RUC process earlier than its scheduled shutdown within the Operating Day, then no compensation is due to the affected QSE from ERCOT. 
(2)	If ERCOT decommits a QSE committed Resource that is not scheduled to shutdown within the Operating Day, then ERCOT shall pay the affected QSE an amount as calculated below for the hours of decommitment.  The number of continuous decommitted hours used in the calculation are the hours beginning with the first decommitted hour until the earlier of: 
(a)	The hour ERCOT determines that the Resource may again be at LSL; and 
(b)	The end of the last hour of the Operating Day.  
(3)	If ERCOT decommits a QSE-committed Resource not scheduled to shutdown within the Operating Day, and the decommitment period spans more than one Operating Day, the RUC Decommitment Payment Amount shall be calculated and paid in the Operating Day in which the RUC decommitment originated.  The number of continuous decommitted hours used in the calculation are the hours beginning with the first decommitted hour until the end of the last hour of the Operating Day in which the RUC decommitment originated.
(4)	The payment for a RUC Cancellation instruction for a Resource is settled for each hour through an adjustment in the RUC Decommitment Payment Amount as shown in paragraph (8) below.
(5)	ERCOT shall produce a report each April that provides the percentage of the RUC Decommitment Payment Amounts that are a result of RUC cancellations during the 12 months of the previous calendar year.  The report shall be based on the Final Settlements.  ERCOT shall present the results of this study to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee.  If there are no RUC Decommitment Payment Amounts for a given calendar year, then ERCOT will not be required to produce the annual report. 
(6)	The SUPR, MEPR and LSL used to calculate payment when ERCOT decommits a QSE-committed Combined Cycle Train is the SUPR, MEPR and LSL that corresponds to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within the Combined Cycle Train, that is RUC-decommitted in the first hour of a contiguous decommitted period. 
(7)	If the SUPR used to calculate payment when ERCOT decommits a QSE-committed AGR is based upon approved verifiable cost for all of the generators associated with the AGR, ERCOT shall scale the startup payment according to the number of generators of the AGR that started following the decommitment.  ERCOT shall make the adjustment no later than on Final Settlement.
(8)	The payment for a RUC decommitment instruction for a Resource, including RMR Units, is calculated for each hour as follows:
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(8)	The payment for a RUC decommitment instruction for a Resource, including RMR Units and excluding ESRs, is calculated for each hour as follows:
RUCDCAMTq,r,h	=	(-1) * Max (0, (SUPRq,r,s -  (Max (0, MEPRq,r,i - RTSPPp,i) * (LSLq,r,i * (¼))))) / NCDCHRq,r,h  
Where:
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer for the Resource, 
Then, 		SUPRq,r,s	=	Min (SUOq,r,s, SUCAP q,r,s)
		MEPRq,r,i	=	Min (MEOq,r,i, MECAP q,r,i)
Otherwise, 	SUPRq,r,s 	= 	SUCAPq,r,s
		MEPRq,r,i 	= 	MECAPq,r,i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
Then, 		SUCAPq,r,s	=	verifiable Startup Costsq,r,s
		MECAPq,r,i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costsq,r,i
Otherwise, 	SUCAPq,r,s 	= 	RCGSCs
		MECAPq,r,i	= 	RCGMECi
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCDCAMTq,r,h	$	RUC Decommitment Payment Amount—The payment to the QSE for the Resource that was decommitted by ERCOT but that was not scheduled to shut down in the Operating Day, for each decommitted hour of the Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are decommitted by RUC, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-decommitted Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
SUPRq,r,s 	$/Start	Startup Price per start—The Settlement price for Resource r for the start s.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
SUOq,r,s	$/Start	Startup Offer per start—Represents an offer for all costs incurred by Generation Resource r in starting up and reaching the Resource’s LSL.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
SUCAPq,r,s	$/Start	Startup Cap—The amount used for Resource r as Startup Costs.  The cap is the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap (RCGSC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific Startup Costs for that Resource, in which case the Startup Cap is the verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost.  The verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost will be determined as described in Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, minus the average energy produced during the time period between breaker close and LSL multiplied by the heat rate proxy “H” multiplied by the appropriate FIP, FOP, or solid fuel price.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGSCs	$/Start	Resource Category Generic Startup Cost—The Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap cost for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, for the Operating Day.
MEPRq,r,i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Price—The Settlement price for Resource r for minimum energy for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MEOq,r,i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Offer—Represents an offer for the costs incurred by Resource r in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MECAPq,r,i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Cap—The amount used for Resource r for minimum-energy costs.  The minimum cost is the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap (RCGMEC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific minimum energy costs for that Resource, in which case the Minimum-Energy Cap is the verifiable unit-specific minimum energy cost.  See Section 5.6.1 for more information on verifiable costs.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGMECi	$/MWh	Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost—The Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap cost for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3.
LSLq,r,i 	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the COP.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RTSPPp,i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Resource’s Settlement Point for the Settlement Interval i.
NCDCHRq,r,h	none	Number of Continuous Decommitted Hours—The number of continuous decommitment hours for Resource r within an Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are decommitted by RUC, the Number of Continuous Decommitted Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-decommitted Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A  RUC-decommitted Generation Resource.
h	none	An hour in the RUC decommitment period.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
s	none	A start.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the contiguous decommitted period.
5.7.4	RUC Make-Whole Charges 
(1)	All QSEs that were capacity-short in each RUC will be charged for that shortage, as described in Section 5.7.4.1, RUC Capacity-Short Charge.  If the revenues from the charges under Section 5.7.4.1 are not enough to cover all RUC Make-Whole Payments for a Settlement Interval, then the difference will be uplifted to all QSEs on a Load Ratio Share (LRS) basis, as described in Section 5.7.4.2, RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge.
(2)	On a monthly basis, within ten days after the Initial Settlement of the last day of the month has been completed, ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area the total RUC Make-Whole Charges and RUC Clawback Payment Amounts, by Settlement Interval, by QSE capacity-shortfall and by amount uplifted. 
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	On a monthly basis, within ten days after the Initial Settlement of the last day of the month has been completed, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the total RUC Make-Whole Charges and RUC Clawback Payment Amounts, by Settlement Interval, by QSE capacity-shortfall and by amount uplifted.
5.7.4.1	RUC Capacity-Short Charge
(1)	The dollar amount charged to each QSE, due to capacity shortfalls for a particular RUC, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, is the QSE’s shortfall ratio share multiplied by the total RUC Make-Whole Payments, including amounts for RMR Units, to all QSEs for that RUC, subject to a cap.  The cap on the charge to each QSE is two multiplied by the total RUC Make-Whole Payments, including amounts for RMR Units, for all QSEs multiplied by that QSE’s capacity shortfall for that RUC process divided by the total capacity of all RUC-committed Resources during that Settlement Interval for the RUC process.  That dollar amount charged to each QSE is calculated as follows:
RUCCSAMT ruc, i, q	=	(-1) * Max [(RUCSFRS ruc, i, q * RUCMWAMTRUCTOT ruc, h), 
(2 * RUCSF ruc, i, q * RUCMWAMTRUCTOT ruc, h / RUCCAPTOT ruc, h)] / 4
Where:
RUCMWAMTRUCTOT ruc, h 	=	  RUCMWAMT ruc, q, r, h
RUCCAPTOT ruc, h	    	 =	 (RUCHSL ruc, h, r – RUCHSL ruc, h, beforeCCGR)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCCSAMT ruc, i, q	$	RUC Capacity-Short Amount—The charge to a QSE q, due to capacity shortfall for a particular RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCMWAMTRUCTOT ruc, h	$	RUC Make-Whole Amount Total per RUC—The sum of RUC Make-Whole Payments for a particular RUC process ruc, including amounts for RMR Units, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCMWAMT ruc, q, r, h	$	RUC Make-Whole Payment—The RUC Make-Whole Payment to the QSE q for Resource r, for a particular RUC process ruc, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See Section 5.7.1, RUC Make-Whole Payment.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	none	RUC Shortfall Ratio Share—The ratio of the QSE q’s capacity shortfall to the sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls for a particular RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 5.7.4.1.1, Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share.
RUCSF ruc, i, q	MW	RUC Shortfall—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall for a particular RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See formula in Section 5.7.4.1.1.
RUCCAPTOT ruc, h	MW	RUC Capacity Total—The sum of the High Sustained Limits (HSLs) of all RUC-committed Resources for a particular RUC process ruc, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See formula in Section 5.7.4.1.1. 
RUCHSL ruc, q, r, h	MW	High Sustained Limit at RUC Snapshot—The HSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour h, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process ruc.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
ruc	none	The RUC process for which the RUC Capacity-Short Charge is calculated.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
r	none	A Generation Resource that is RUC-committed for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as a result of a particular RUC process.
beforeCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was QSE-committed in a RUCAC-Interval.
5.7.4.1.1	Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share
(1)	In calculating the amount short for each QSE, the available capacity of an IRR when determining responsibility for the corresponding RUC charges shall be the lesser of the HSL value as reflected in the COP and the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP), as described in Section 4.2.2, Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential, for a Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR), or the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP), as described in Section 4.2.3, PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential, for a PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR), at the time of RUC execution.  For an IRR, the HASLSNAP variable used below shall be equal to the minimum of the WGRPP or PVGRPP described above and the HSL value as reflected in the QSE’s COP, at the time of the RUC execution.  
(2)	In calculating the amount short for each QSE, the QSE must be given a capacity credit for non-Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) that were given notice of decommitment within the two hours before the Operating Hour as a result of the RUC process by setting the HASLSNAP and HASLADJ variables used below equal to the HASLSNAP value for the Resource immediately before the decommitment instruction was given.  
(3)	In calculating the short amount for each QSE, if the High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) for a Resource was credited to the QSE during the RUC snapshot but the Resource experiences a Forced Outage within two hours before the start of the Settlement Interval, then the HASL for that Resource is also credited to the QSE in the HASLADJ.
(4)	In calculating the short amount for each QSE, if the DCIMPSNAP was credited to the QSE during the RUC snapshot but the entire Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) experiences a Forced Outage within two hours before the start of the Settlement Interval, then the DCIMPSNAP is also credited to the QSE in the DCIMPADJ.
(5)	For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, if more than one Combined Cycle Generation Resource is shown On-Line in its COP for the same Settlement hour, then the provisions of paragraph (6)(a) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, apply in the determination of the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource for that Settlement hour.
(6)	The capacity shortfall ratio share of a specific QSE for a particular RUC process is calculated, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, as follows:
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	=	RUCSF ruc, i, q / RUCSFTOT ruc, i
Where:
RUCSFTOT ruc, i	=	 RUCSF ruc, i, q
(7)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCSF ruc, i, q	=	Max (0, Max (RUCSFSNAP ruc, q, i, RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i) –  RUCCAPCREDIT q, i, z)
(8)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval, as measured at the snapshot, is:
RUCSFSNAP ruc ,q ,i	=	Max (0, (( RTAML q, p, i * 4) – RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i))
(9)	The amount of capacity that a QSE had according to the RUC snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i =	 HASLSNAP q, r, h + (RUCCPSNAP q, h – RUCCSSNAP q, h) + ( DAEP q, p, h – DAES q, p, h) + ( RTQQEPSNAP q, p, i –  RTQQESSNAP q, p, i) +    DCIMPSNAP q, p, i
(10)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval, as measured at Real-Time, but including capacity from IRRs as seen in the RUC snapshot, is:
RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i	=	Max (0, (( RTAML q, p, i) *4) – ( HASLSNAP ruc, q, r, h + RUCCAPADJ q, i))
(11)	The amount of capacity that a QSE had in Real-Time for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, excluding capacity from IRRs, is:
RUCCAPADJ q, i =	 HASLADJ q, r, h + (RUCCPADJ q, h – RUCCSADJ q, h) + ( DAEP q, p, h –  DAES q, p, h) + ( RTQQEPADJ q, p, i –  RTQQESADJ q, p, i) +   DCIMPADJ q, p, i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	none	RUC Shortfall Ratio Share—The ratio of the QSE q’s capacity shortfall to the sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSF ruc, i, q	MW	RUC Shortfall—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFTOT ruc, i	MW	RUC Shortfall Total—The sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for a RUC process ruc, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Shortfall at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall according to the snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Shortfall at Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s Adjustment Period capacity shortfall, including capacity from IRRs as seen in the snapshot for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCAPCREDIT q, i, z	MW	RUC Capacity Credit by QSE—The QSE q’s capacity credit resulting from capacity paid through the RUC Capacity-Short Amount for RUC process z for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTAML q, p, i	MWh	Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load—The QSE q’s Adjusted Metered Load (AML) at the Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Capacity Snapshot at time of RUC—The amount of the QSE q’s calculated capacity in the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  
HASLSNAP q, r, h	MW	High Ancillary Services Limit at Snapshot—The HASL of the Resource r represented by the QSE q, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
DCIMPADJ q, p, i	MW	DC Import per QSE per Settlement Point—The approved aggregated DC Tie Schedule submitted by QSE q as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p according to the Adjustment Period snapshot, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
DCIMPSNAP q, p, i	MW	DC Import per QSE per Settlement Point—The approved aggregated DC Tie Schedule submitted by QSE q as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p, according to the snapshot for the RUC process for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCPSNAP q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Purchase at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity purchase, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSSNAP q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Sale at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity sale, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCAPADJ q, i	MW	RUC Capacity Snapshot during Adjustment Period—The amount of the QSE q’s calculated capacity in the RUC according to the COP and Trades Snapshot, excluding capacity for IRRs, at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
HASLADJ q, r, h	MW	High Ancillary Services Limit at Adjustment Period—The HASL of a non-IRR r represented by the QSE q, according to the Adjustment Period snapshot, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
RUCCPADJ q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Purchase at Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s capacity purchase, according to the Adjustment Period COP and Trades Snapshot for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSADJ q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Sale at Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s capacity sale, according to the Adjustment Period COP and Trades Snapshot for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
DAEP q, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase—The QSE q’s energy purchased in the DAM at the Settlement Point p for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
DAES q, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale—The QSE q’s energy sold in the DAM at the Settlement Point p for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTQQEPSNAP q, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase by QSE by point—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the buyer at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the COP and Trades Snapshot.
RTQQESSNAP q, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale by QSE by point—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the seller at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the COP and Trades Snapshot.
RTQQEPADJ q, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase by QSE by point—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the buyer at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the last COP and Trades Snapshot at the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
RTQQESADJ q, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale by QSE by point—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the seller at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the last COP and Trades Snapshot at the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
r	none	A Generation Resource that is QSE-committed or planning to operate as a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) for the Settlement Interval as shown by the Resource Status of OFFQS in the COP and Trades Snapshot and/or Adjustment Period snapshot; or RUC-decommitted for the Settlement Interval (subject to paragraphs (1) and (2) above); or a Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) released by a non-ERCOT Control Area Operator (CAO) to operate in the ERCOT Control Area due to an ERCOT RUC instruction for an actual or anticipated EEA condition.  If the Settlement Interval is a RUCAC-Interval, r represents the Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was QSE-committed at the time the RUCAC was issued.
z	none	A previous RUC process for the Operating Day.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
ruc	none	The RUC process for which this RUC Shortfall Ratio Share is calculated.

[NPRR1009, NPRR1014, NPRR1029, NPRR1032, and NPRR1236:  Replace applicable portions of Section 5.7.4.1.1 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009 and NPRR1236; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014, NPRR1029, or NPRR1032:]
5.7.4.1.1	Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share
(1)	In calculating the shortfall amount for each QSE, the Resource capacity (RCAPSNAP and RCAPADJ) shall be calculated for a Generation Resource that meets any of the following conditions: 
(a)	QSE-committed;  
(b)	Planning to operate as a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) for the Settlement Interval as shown by the COP Status of OFFQS in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC Process and/or Adjustment Period; or
(c)	A Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) that is released by a non-ERCOT Control Area Operator (CAO) to operate in the ERCOT Control Area due to an ERCOT RUC instruction for an actual or anticipated EEA condition and that is shown as On-Line in its COP; or 
(d)	If the Settlement Interval is a RUCAC-Interval, the Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was QSE-committed at the time the RUCAC was issued, excluding the condition for SWGRs as describe in paragraph (c) above.
(2)	In calculating the amount short for each QSE, the available capacity of an IRR when determining responsibility for the corresponding RUC charges shall be the lesser of the HSL value, as reflected in the COP, and the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP), as described in Section 4.2.2, Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential, for a Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR), or the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP), as described in Section 4.2.3, PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential, for a PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR), at the time of RUC execution.  For an IRR, the RCAPSNAP variable used below shall be equal to the minimum of the WGRPP or PVGRPP described above and the HSL value as reflected in the QSE’s COP, at the time of the RUC execution. 
(3)	In calculating the amount short for each QSE, the QSE must be given a capacity credit for non-Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) that were given notice of decommitment within the two hours before the Operating Hour as a result of the RUC process by setting the RCAPSNAP and RCAPADJ variables used below set equal to the RCAPSNAP value for the Resource immediately before the decommitment instruction was given.
(4)	In calculating the short amount for each QSE, if the RCAPSNAP for a non-IRR was credited to the QSE during the RUC Snapshot but the Resource experiences a Forced Outage within two hours before the start of the Settlement Interval, then the RCAPSNAP for that Resource is also credited to the QSE in the RCAPADJ.
(5)	In calculating the short amount for each QSE, if the DCIMPSNAP was credited to the QSE during the RUC Snapshot but the entire Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) experiences a Forced Outage within two hours before the start of the Settlement Interval, then the DCIMPSNAP is also credited to the QSE in the RTDCIMP.
(6)	For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, if more than one Combined Cycle Generation Resource is shown On-Line in its COP for the same Settlement hour, then the provisions of paragraph (6)(a) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, apply in the determination of the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource for that Settlement hour.
(7)	The QSE Ancillary Service shortfall calculation in MW for each hour in the RUC Snapshot or for the end of the Adjustment Period involves solving an optimization that minimizes any potential Ancillary Service shortfall for a QSE.   This is done by determining the optimal utilization of Ancillary Service capabilities within each QSE’s portfolio of Resources to meet its net Ancillary Service position for each Ancillary Service sub-type.  A QSE’s Ancillary Service shortfall for an hour is the difference between the QSE’s net Ancillary Service position and its coverage of Ancillary Services using the outputs of this optimization based on the QSE’s Resource Ancillary Service capabilities for that hour as reflected in the COPs submitted by the QSE.
(a)	For each Ancillary Service sub-type, the Ancillary Service MW capability for each Resource in the QSE’s portfolio for a given hour in the RUC Snapshot or at the end of the Adjustment Period (ASMWCAPSNAP and ASMWCAPADJ) is calculated as the minimum of:
(i)	HSL minus LSL in the COP if the Resource is On-Line (ON, ONOS, ONSC, and ONL).  If a Generation Resource COP Resource Status is OFF or OFFQS, only the COP HSL is used.  For a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource refers to a particular Combined Cycle Generation Resource belonging to that Combined Cycle Train.  For a Combined Cycle Train, select the Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is On-Line (ON or ONOS) with the highest HSL.  If none of the Combined Cycle Generation Resources of a Combined Cycle Train are On-Line, then select the Combined Cycle Generation Resource that has the highest HSL and a COP Resource Status of OFF and that can be started up within 30 minutes;
(ii)	Submitted Ancillary Service Offer MW quantity for the Ancillary Service type/sub-type;
(iii)	Submitted COP Ancillary Service MW capability; and
(iv)	Qualified Ancillary Service MW amount for the Ancillary Service sub-type.  For Resources with COP Resource Status of OFFQS, the qualified MW amounts for Reg-Up, Reg-Down, and RRS will be set to zero.  For Resources with a COP Resource Status of OFF, the qualified MW amounts for Reg-Up, Reg-Down, RRS, and ECRS will be set to zero.
(b)	The QSE Ancillary Service shortfall calculation enforces the following constraints for each hour using data from the RUC Snapshot or the end of the Adjustment Period:
(i)	Ensure that a QSE’s portfolio of Resource capacities are only used to cover that QSE’s net Ancillary Service position by each Ancillary Service sub-type.
(ii)	A QSE’s Fast Frequency Response Service (FFRS) position can be covered by the QSE’s portfolio of Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) qualified to provide FFRS, Load Resources having a high-set under-frequency Relay that are qualified for Responsive Reserve (RRS) or Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), Generation Resources, and ESRs that are qualified to provide RRS as Primary Frequency Response.
(iii)	A QSE’s RRS position of the type provided by Load Resources having a high-set under-frequency Relay that are qualified for RRS can be covered by the QSE’s portfolio of Load Resources qualified to provide this type of RRS or CLRs, Generation Resources, and ESRs that are qualified to provide RRS as Primary Frequency Response.
(iv)	A QSE’s ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) position of the type that is not SCED-dispatchable can be covered by the QSE’s portfolio of Load Resources that are qualified to provide non-SCED dispatchable ECRS, or by CLRs, Generation Resources, and ESRs that are qualified to provide ECRS of the type that is SCED-dispatchable.
(v)	A QSE’s Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) position of the type that is not SCED-dispatchable can be covered by the QSE’s portfolios of Load Resources that are qualified to provide non-SCED dispatchable Non-Spin, or by CLRs, Generation Resources, and ESRs that are qualified to provide Non-Spin of the type that is SCED-dispatchable.
(vi)	For each Resource and Ancillary Service sub-type:
(A)	Ancillary Service capacity used for each Ancillary Service sub-type cannot exceed that Resource’s Ancillary Service capability for that Ancillary Service sub-type.
(B)	The sum of all the Ancillary Service capacities used for each Ancillary Service sub-type cannot exceed the COP HSL minus LSL limits.  For Generation Resources that have a Resource Status of OFF and the Ancillary Service type is Non-Spin, consider LSL to be zero.  Likewise, for Generation Resources that have a Resource Status of OFFQS and the Ancillary Service type is Non-Spin or ECRS, consider LSL to be zero.
(C)	For ESRs, consider:
(1)	Duration requirements for each Ancillary Service type and the submitted COP values for Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC), Minimum SOC (MinSOC) and Maximum SOC (MaxSOC); 
(2)	Ancillary Service deployment factors, duration requirements for different Ancillary Service types or sub-types, and the difference between the submitted COP Hour Beginning Planned SOC for the hour under consideration and the next hour; and
(3)	The charge or discharge MW required to satisfy the above constraints. 
(c)	The outputs of the optimization for each Resource are: 
(i)	The Resource’s MW capacity used to cover its QSE’s net Ancillary Service position by Ancillary Service sub-type for a given hour.  These values are ASMWCAPUSNAP for a given hour in the RUC Snapshot and ASMWCAPUADJ for the end of the Adjustment Period.
(ii)	For an ESR, the MW discharge (positive) or charge (negative) required to support the ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage of its QSE’s net Ancillary Service position, considering the submitted COP values for MinSOC, MaxSOC, and the difference in the Hour Beginning Planned SOC for the hour under consideration and the next hour.  This value will also account for Ancillary Service deployment factors and the duration requirements for energy and different Ancillary Service types.  These values are MWSNAP for a given hour in the RUC Snapshot and MWADJ for the end of the Adjustment Period.
(8)	The capacity shortfall ratio share of a specific QSE for a particular RUC process is calculated, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, as follows:
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	=	RUCSF ruc, i, q / RUCSFTOT ruc, i
Where:
RUCSFTOT ruc, i	=	 RUCSF ruc, i, q
(9)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCSF ruc, i, q	=	Max (0, Max (RUCSFSNAP ruc, q, i, RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i) –  RUCCAPCREDIT q, i, z)
(10)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval, as measured at the RUC Snapshot, is:
RUCSFSNAP ruc ,q ,i	=	Max (RUCOSFSNAP ruc, q, i , RUCASFSNAP ruc, q, i)
(11)	The overall shortfall in MW that a QSE had according to the RUC Snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCOSFSNAP ruc, q, i   =  Max (0, (( RTAML q, p, i * 4) + ASONPOSSNAP ruc, q, i  – RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i))
The QSE’s On-Line Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
ASONPOSSNAP ruc, q, i   =  RUPOSSNAP ruc, q, h  + RRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h +                                  ECRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + Max (0, (NSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h –  ASOFFOFRSNAP ruc, q, r, h))
	The amount of capacity that a QSE had according to the RUC Snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i =	 RCAPSNAP ruc, q, r, h + (RUCCPSNAP ruc, q, h – RUCCSSNAP ruc, q, h) + ( DAEP q, p, h – DAES q, p, h) + ( RTQQEPSNAP ruc, q, p, i –  RTQQESSNAP ruc, q, p, i) +    DCIMPSNAP ruc, q, p, i +  ASOFRLRSNAP ruc, q, r, h + ESRMWSNAP ruc, q, h + ESRASSNAP ruc, q, h  
Where: 
The QSE’s net up Ancillary Service position (Reg-Up + RRS + ECRS + Non-Spin) covered by the QSE’s portfolio of ESRs is: 
ESRASSNAP ruc, q, h =  Σ┬ASSubTypeASMWCAPUSNAP ruc, q, h, ASSubType, r
The sum of the QSE’s ESR discharging (positive) or charging (negative) output is: 
ESRMWSNAP ruc, q, h =  MWSNAP ruc, q, h, r
(12)	The Ancillary Service shortfall in MW that a QSE had according to the RUC Snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCASFSNAP ruc, q, i   =  RUPOSSNAP ruc, q, h +  RDPOSSNAP ruc, q, h 
+ RRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + ECRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h 
+ NSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h – ASMWCAPUQSNAP ruc, q, h
Where:
ASMWCAPUQSNAP ruc, q, h  =  Σ┬ASSubTypeASMWCAPUSNAP ruc, q, h, ASSubType, r
RRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h = Max(0, PFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + Max(0, UFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + FFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h))
ECRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h = Max(0, ECSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + ECMPOSSNAP ruc, q, h)
NSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h = Max(0, NSSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + NSMPOSSNAP ruc, q, h)
(13)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval, as measured at the end of the Adjustment Period, is:
RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i	=	Max (RUCOSFADJ ruc, q, i, RUCASFADJ q, i )
(14)	The overall shortfall in MW that a QSE had at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, but including capacity from IRRs as seen in the RUC Snapshot, is:
RUCOSFADJ ruc, q, i  = Max (0, (( RTAML q, p, i *4) + ASONPOSADJ q, i – ( RCAPSNAP ruc, q, r, h + RUCCAPADJ q, i)))
Where:
The On-Line Ancillary Service Position the QSE had at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
ASONPOSADJ q ,i   =  RUPOSADJ q, h  + RRPOSADJ q, h + ECRPOSADJ q, h + Max (0, (NSPOSADJ q, h –  ASOFFOFRADJ  q, r, h))
	The amount of capacity that a QSE had at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, excluding capacity from IRRs, is:
RUCCAPADJ q, i =	 RCAPADJ q, r, h + (RUCCPADJ q, h – RUCCSADJ q, h) + ( DAEP q, p, h –  DAES q, p, h) + ( RTQQEPADJ q, p, i –  RTQQESADJ q, p, i) +   RTDCIMP q, p +  ASOFRLRADJ  q, r, h + ESRMWADJ q, h + ESRASADJ q, h
Where: 
The QSE’s net up Ancillary Service position (Reg-Up + RRS + ECRS + Non-Spin) covered by the QSE’s portfolio of ESRs is: 

ESRASADJ q, h =  Σ┬ASSubTypeASMWCAPUADJ q, h, ASSubType, r

The sum of the QSE’s ESR discharging (positive) or charging (negative) output is: 
ESRMWADJ q, h =  MWADJ q, h, r
(15)	The Ancillary Service shortfall in MW that a QSE had at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCASFADJ q, i   = RUPOSADJ q, h + RDPOSADJ q, h 
+ RRPOSADJ q, h + ECRPOSADJ q, h + NSPOSADJ q, h 
– ASMWCAPUQADJ q, h
Where:
ASMWCAPUQADJ q, h =  Σ┬ASSubTypeASMWCAPUADJ  q, h, ASSubType, r
RRPOSADJ q, h = Max(0, PFPOSADJ q, h + Max(0,UFPOSADJ q, h + FFPOSADJ q, h))
ECRPOSADJ q, h = Max(0, ECSPOSADJ q, h + ECMPOSADJ q, h)
NSPOSADJ q, h = Max(0,NSSPOSADJ q, h + NSMPOSADJ q, h)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	none	RUC Shortfall Ratio Share—The ratio of the QSE q’s capacity shortfall to the sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSF ruc, i, q	MW	RUC Shortfall—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFTOT ruc, i	MW	RUC Shortfall Total—The sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for a RUC process ruc, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Shortfall at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall will be the maximum of the QSE’s overall shortfall or Ancillary Service shortfall, as calculated for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Shortfall at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s end of Adjustment Period capacity shortfall will be the maximum of the QSE’s overall shortfall or Ancillary Service shortfall, as calculated for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCAPCREDIT q, i, z	MW	RUC Capacity Credit—The QSE q’s capacity credit resulting from capacity paid through the RUC Capacity-Short Amount for RUC process z for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCOSFSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Overall Shortfall at Snapshot —The QSE q’s overall capacity shortfall according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCASFSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Ancillary Service Shortfall at Snapshot —The QSE q’s Ancillary Service capacity shortfall according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
ASONPOSSNAP ruc ,q ,i	MW	Ancillary Service On-Line Position at Snapshot – The QSE q’s total On-Line Ancillary Service position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i. 
RUPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Regulation Up Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time Reg-Up Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve Service Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time RRS Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ECRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time ECRS Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
NSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time Non-Spin Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RDPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Regulation Down Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASOFFOFRSNAP ruc, q, r, h	MW	Ancillary Service Offline Offers at Snapshot –The capacity represented by validated Ancillary Service Offers for Non-Spin for Resource r with COP status of “OFF”, represented by QSE q according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  A Resource’s offered capacity is only included in the sum to the extent that the Resource’s COP Status and Ancillary Service Capability indicate it would be capable of providing the Ancillary Service during the hour h.
ASOFRLRSNAP ruc, q, r, h	MW	Ancillary Service Offer per Load Resource at Snapshot – The capacity represented by validated Ancillary Service Offers for Reg-Up, Non-Spin, RRS, and ECRS for the Load Resource r represented by QSE q according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  A Resource’s offered capacity is only included in the sum to the extent that the Resource’s COP Status and Ancillary Service Capability indicate it would be capable of providing the Ancillary Service during the hour h.
PFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Governor Response or Governor-Like Response) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net Real-Time RRS-PFR Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
UFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Under Frequency trigger at 59.7 Hz.) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net Real-Time RRS-UFR Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
FFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Fast Frequency Response) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net positive Real-Time RRS-FFR Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ECSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (SCED Dispatchable) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net ECRS Ancillary Service Position that is SCED-dispatchable according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval. This value can be positive or negative.
ECMPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (Non-SCED Dispatchable) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net positive ECRS Ancillary Service Position that is non-SCED-dispatchable according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
NSSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service (SCED Dispatchable) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net Non-Spin Ancillary Service Position that is SCED-dispatchable according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
NSMPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service (Non-SCED Dispatchable) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net positive Non-Spin Ancillary Service Position that is non-SCED-dispatchable according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASMWCAPUQSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Calculated Total MW Capacity used to cover the QSE’s Ancillary Service Position at Snapshot—The calculated total MW capacity for a QSE q that represents the amount of the QSE’s Ancillary Service Position covered by its Resources for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASMWCAPUSNAP ruc, q, h, ASSubtype, r	MW	Calculated MW Capacity used to cover the QSE’s ‘AStype’ Ancillary Service Position at Snapshot—The calculated MW Capacity of a Resource r represented by QSE q that is used to cover its QSE’s “ASSubtype” Ancillary Service Position for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
MWSNAP ruc, q, h, r	MW	Calculated MW required to support ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage at Snapshot—The MW discharge (positive) or charge (negative) required to support the ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage considering the submitted COP values for Hour Beginning Planned SOC, MinSOC, MaxSOC and the difference in the Hour Beginning Planned SOC for the hour under consideration and the next hour while accounting for Ancillary Service deployment factors and the duration requirements for energy and different Ancillary Service types Position for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ESRASSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Calculated Ancillary Service MW Capacity Provided By QSE’s ESR Portfolio at  Snapshot—The total ESR MW capacity used to cover the QSE q’s Upward Ancillary Service position for Reg-Up, RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ESRMWSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Calculated QSE Total ESR MW Discharging or Charging Required To Support Ancillary Service at Snapshot—The total net ESR MW discharging or charging required to cover the QSE q’s Ancillary Service position provided by the QSE ESR portfolio in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval, taking into account the COP SOC values from COP.
RUCOSFADJ ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Overall Shortfall at End of Adjustment Period —The QSE q’s overall capacity shortfall at the end of the Adjustment Period, including capacity from IRRs as seen in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCASFADJ q, i	MW	RUC Ancillary Service Shortfall at End of Adjustment Period —The QSE q’s Ancillary Service capacity shortfall at the end of the Adjustment Period for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
ASONPOSADJ q ,i	MW	Ancillary Service On-Line Position at End of Adjustment Period – The QSE q’s total On-Line Ancillary Service position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUPOSADJ q, h	MW	Regulation Up Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive Reg-Up Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RRPOSADJ q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve Service Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive RRS Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ECRPOSADJ q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive ECRS Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
NSPOSADJ q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive Non-Spin Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RDPOSADJ q, h	MW	Regulation Down Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive Reg-Down Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASOFFOFRADJ  q, r, h	MW	Ancillary Service Offline Offers at End of Adjustment Period –The capacity represented by validated Ancillary Service Offers for Non-Spin for Resource r with COP status of “OFF”, represented by QSE q at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  A Resource’s offered capacity is only included in the sum to the extent that the Resource’s COP Status and Ancillary Service Capability indicate it would be capable of providing the Ancillary Service during the hour h.
ASOFRLRADJ  q, r, h	MW	Ancillary Service Offer per Load Resource at End of Adjustment Period – The capacity represented by validated Ancillary Service Offers for Reg-Up, Non-Spin, RRS, and ECRS for the Load Resource r represented by QSE q at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  A Resource’s offered capacity is only included in the sum to the extent that the Resource’s COP Status and Ancillary Service Capability indicate it would be capable of providing the Ancillary Service during the hour h.
PFPOSADJ q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Governor Response or Governor-Like Response) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net RRS-PFR Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval. This value can be positive or negative.
UFPOSADJ q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Under Frequency trigger at 59.7 Hz.) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net RRS-UFR Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
FFPOSADJ q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Fast Frequency Response) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net positive RRS-FFR Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ECSPOSADJ q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (SCED Dispatchable) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net ECRS SCED Dispatchable Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
ECMPOSADJ q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (Non-SCED Dispatchable) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net positive ECRS non-SCED-dispatchable Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
NSSPOSADJ q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service (SCED Dispatchable) Position at End of Adjustment PeriodThe QSE q’s net Non-Spin SCED-dispatchable Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
NSMPOSADJ q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service (Non-SCED Dispatchable) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net positive Non-Spin non-SCED-dispatchable Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASMWCAPUQADJ q, h	MW	Calculated Total MW Capacity used to cover the QSE’s Ancillary Service Position at End of Adjustment Period—The calculated total MW capacity for a QSE q that represents the amount of the QSE’s Ancillary Service Position covered by its Resources at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASMWCAPUADJ q, h, ASSubtype, r	MW	Calculated MW Capacity used to cover the QSE’s ‘AStype’ Ancillary Service Position at End of Adjustment Period—The calculated MW Capacity of a Resource r represented by QSE q that is used to cover its QSE’s “ASSubtype” Ancillary Service Position at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
MWADJ q, h, r	MW	Calculated MW discharge (positive) or charge (negative) required to support ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage at End of Adjustment Period—The MW discharge (positive) or charge (negative) required to support the ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage considering the submitted COP values for Hour Beginning Planned SOC, MinSOC, MaxSOC and the difference in the Hour Beginning Planned SOC for the hour under consideration and the next hour while accounting for Ancillary Service deployment factors and the duration requirements for energy and different Ancillary Service types Position at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ESRASADJ q, h	MW	Calculated Ancillary Service MW Capacity Provided By QSE’s ESR Portfolio at the End of Adjustment Period—The total ESR MW capacity used to cover the QSE q’s Upward Ancillary Service position for Reg-Up, RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ESRMWADJ q, h	MW	Calculated QSE Total ESR MW Discharging or Charging Required To Support Ancillary Service at End of Adjustment Period—The total net ESR MW discharging or charging required to cover the QSE q’s Ancillary Service position provided by the QSE ESR portfolio at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval, taking into account the COP SOC values from COP.
RTAML q, p, i	MWh	Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load—The QSE q’s Adjusted Metered Load (AML) at the Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Capacity Snapshot at time of RUC—The amount of the QSE q’s calculated capacity in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  
RCAPSNAP ruc, q, r, h	MW	Resource Capacity at Snapshot—The available capacity of Generation Resource r represented by the QSE q, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  For Generation Resources that are not IRRs, the available capacity shall be equal to HSL.  For WGRs and PVGRs, the available capacity shall be equal to the lesser of the HSL or the WGRPP and the PVGRPP, respectively.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train. 
DCIMPSNAP ruc, q, p, i	MW	DC Import at Snapshot—The approved aggregated DC Tie Schedule submitted by QSE q as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTDCIMP q, p	MW	Real-Time DC Import per QSE per Settlement Point—The aggregated final, approved DC Tie Schedule submitted by QSE q as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCPSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Purchase at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity purchase, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Sale at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity sale, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCAPADJ q, i	MW	RUC Capacity at End of Adjustment Period—The amount of the QSE q’s calculated capacity, excluding capacity for IRRs, at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RCAPADJ q, r, h	MW	Resource Capacity at End of Adjustment Period—The HSL of a non-IRR Generation Resource r represented by the QSE q at the end of the Adjustment Period, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train. 
RUCCPADJ q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Purchase at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s capacity purchase, at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSADJ q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Sale at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s capacity sale, at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
DAEP q, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase—The QSE q’s energy purchased in the DAM at the Settlement Point p for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
DAES q, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale—The QSE q’s energy sold in the DAM at the Settlement Point p for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTQQEPSNAP ruc, q, p, i	MW	Real-Time QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase at Snapshot—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the buyer at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc.
RTQQESSNAP ruc, q, p, i	MW	Real-Time QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale at Snapshot—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the seller at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc.
RTQQEPADJ q, p, i	MW	Real-Time QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the buyer at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, at the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
RTQQESADJ q, p, i	MW	Real-Time QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the seller at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, at the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
r	none	A Generation Resource, an ESR, or a Load Resource.
ASSubType	none	Ancillary Service Sub-Type: Reg-Up, Reg-Down, RRS provided as Primary Frequency Response, RRS provided via a high-set under-frequency relay, Fast Frequency Response (FFR), ECRS that is SCED-dispatchable, ECRS that is non-SCED dispatchable, Non-Spin that is SCED-dispatchable, and Non-Spin that is non-SCED-dispatchable.
z	none	A previous RUC process for the Operating Day.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
ruc	none	The RUC process for which this RUC Shortfall Ratio Share is calculated.

5.7.4.1.2	RUC Capacity Credit
(1)	A QSE that is charged for a capacity shortfall in one RUC process gets a capacity credit equal to the minimum of the QSE’s RUC shortfall (MW) or the total RUC capacity purchased multiplied by the QSE’s shortfall ratio share.  The capacity credit to be used in future RUC processes for the same 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RUCCAPCREDITruc,i,q	=	Min [RUCSFruc,i,q, (RUCCAPTOTruc,h* RUCSFRSruc,i,q)]
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCCAPCREDITruc,i,q	MW	RUC Capacity Credit by QSE—The capacity credit resulting from capacity paid through the RUC Capacity-Short Charge for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  
RUCSFruc,i,q	MW	RUC Shortfall—The QSE’s capacity shortfall for the RUC process for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCSFRSruc,i,q	none	RUC Shortfall Ratio Share—The ratio of the QSE’s capacity shortfall to the sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for the RUC process, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCAPTOTruc,h	MW	RUC Capacity Total—The total capacity of all RUC-committed Resources during the RUC process, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  
q	none	A QSE.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
ruc	none	The RUC process for which this RUC Capacity Credit is calculated.
5.7.4.2	RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge
(1)	If the revenues from the charges under Section 5.7.4.1, RUC Capacity-Short Charge, are not enough to cover all RUC Make-Whole Payments, including amounts for RMR Units, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, then the difference will be uplifted to all QSEs on a Load Ratio Share basis, as a RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge, calculated as follows: 
LARUCAMTq,i	=	(-1) * ( RUCMWAMTTOTh / 4 + RUCCSAMTTOTi) * LRSq,i
Where:
	RUCMWAMTTOTh 		=	 RUCMWAMTRUCTOTruc,h
	RUCCSAMTTOTi	    	 =	  RUCCSAMTruc,i,q

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LARUCAMTq,i	$	RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge—The amount owed from the QSE based on Load Ratio Share, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCMWAMTTOTh	$	RUC Make-Whole Amount Total—The sum of RUC Make-Whole Payments for all RUC processes, including amounts for RMR Units, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCMWAMTRUCTOTruc,h	$	RUC Make-Whole Amount Total per RUC—The sum of RUC Make-Whole Payments for a particular RUC process, including payments for RMR Units, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSAMTTOTi	$	RUC Capacity Amount Total—The sum of RUC Capacity-Short Charges for all QSEs and RUC processes, including payments for RMR Units, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSAMTruc,i,q	$	RUC Capacity-Short Amount—The charge to a QSE, due to capacity shortfall for a particular RUC process, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
LRSq,i	none	Load Ratio Share—The ratio of Adjusted Metered Load to the total ERCOT Adjusted Metered Load for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See Section 6.6.2, Load Ratio Share, item (2).
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
ruc	none	A RUC Process.
q	none	A QSE.
5.7.5	RUC Clawback Payment
(1)	ERCOT shall pay the revenues from all RUC Clawback Charges, including amounts for RMR Units, in a 15-minute Settlement Interval to all QSEs, on an LRS basis, as the RUC Clawback Payment.  The RUC Clawback Payment is calculated as follows for each QSE for each 15-minute Settlement Interval: 
LARUCCBAMTq,i	=	(-1) * (RUCCBAMTTOTh / 4 * LRSq,i)
Where:
	RUCCBAMTTOTh	=	  RUCCBAMTq,r,h
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LARUCCBAMTq,i	$	RUC Clawback Payment—The RUC make-whole clawback payment to a QSE to uplift RUC Make-Whole Clawback Charges received, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCBAMTTOTh	$	RUC Clawback Charge Total —The sum of RUC Clawback Charges to all QSEs, including amounts for RMR Units, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
LRSq,i	none	Load Ratio Share—The LRS for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See Section 6.6.2, Load Ratio Share.
RUCCBAMTq,r,h	$	RUC Clawback Charge—The RUC Clawback Charge to the QSE q for the Resource r, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, a charge is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	None	A QSE.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
5.7.6	RUC Decommitment Charge 
(1)	ERCOT shall charge each QSE a RUC Decommitment Charge, on an LRS basis, all revenues paid as a result of RUC Decommitment Payments, including amounts for RMR Units.  The RUC Decommitment Charge for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
LARUCDCAMTq,i	=	(-1) * [(RUCDCAMTTOTh / 4) * LRSq,i]
Where:
	RUCDCAMTTOTh	=	  RUCDCAMTq,r,h
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LARUCDCAMTq,i	$	RUC Decommitment Charge—The RUC Decommitment Charge to a QSE, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCDCAMTTOTh	$	RUC Decommitment Charge Total—The sum of RUC Decommitment Payments to all QSEs, including amounts for RMR Units, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
LRSq,i	none	Load Ratio Share—The LRS for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See Section 6.6.2, Load Ratio Share.
RUCDCAMTq,r,h	$	RUC Decommitment Charge—The RUC Decommitment Charge to the QSE q for the Resource r, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are decommitted by RUC, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-decommitted Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	None	A QSE.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
r 	None	A RUC-decommitted Generation Resource.
5.7.7 	Settlement of Switchable Generation Resources (SWGRs) Operating in a Non-ERCOT Control Area
(1)	A QSE representing an SWGR operating in ERCOT due to a RUC instruction for an actual or anticipated EEA condition with a status of ONRUC is not eligible for RUC Settlement as described in Section 5.7.1, RUC Make-Whole Payment, and Section 5.7.2, RUC Clawback Charge, but may obtain compensation by submitting a Settlement and billing dispute pursuant to Section 6.6.12, Make-Whole Payment for Switchable Generation Resources Committed for Energy Emergency Alert (EEA).
5.8	Annual RUC Reporting Requirement
(1)	ERCOT shall report to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), each January, an assessment of market impacts and Settlements for the aggregate Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) activity, delineated by type of RUC instruction as follows:
(a) 	RUC instructions issued for Ancillary Service shortages (failure to sufficiently procure one or more Ancillary Service markets in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or subsequent Supplemental Ancillary Service Markets (SASMs));
[NPRR1009:  Delete paragraph (a) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(b)	RUC instructions issued for irresolvable transmission system constraints;
(c) 	RUC instructions issued in anticipation of extreme cold weather/startup failures;
(d)	RUC instructions issued for capacity;
[NPRR1204:  Insert paragraph (e) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly:]
(e)	RUC instructions issued for expected Energy Storage Resource (ESR) energy consumption;
(e)	RUC instructions issued for system inertia;
(f)	RUC instructions issued to Resources receiving an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA); and
(g)	A summary of RUC Settlements;
(i)	RUC charges associated with RUC Make-Whole Amount Total per RUC, as defined in Section 5.7.4.1, RUC Capacity-Short Charge; and
(ii)	RUC Shortfall Total, as defined in Section 5.7.4.1.1, Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 5:  Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment

February 1, 2025




 
5	Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment	5-1
5.1	Introduction	5-1
5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment Timeline Summary	5-3
5.2.1	RUC Normal Timeline Summary	5-3
5.2.2	RUC Process Timing Deviations	5-4
5.2.2.1	RUC Process Timeline After a Delay of the Day-Ahead Market	5-4
5.2.2.2	RUC Process Timeline After an Aborted Day-Ahead Market	5-5
5.3	ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities	5-7
5.4	QSE Security Sequence Responsibilities	5-9
5.4.1	Ancillary Service Positions	5-10
5.5	Security Sequence, Including RUC	5-10
5.5.1	Security Sequence	5-10
5.5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process	5-12
5.5.3	Communication of RUC Commitments and Decommitments	5-25
5.6	RUC Cost Eligibility	5-26
5.6.1	Verifiable Costs	5-26
5.6.1.1	Verifiable Startup Costs	5-32
5.6.1.2	Verifiable Minimum-Energy Costs	5-32
5.6.2	RUC Startup Cost Eligibility	5-32
5.6.3	Forced Outage of a RUC-Committed Resource	5-34
5.6.4	Cancellation of a RUC Commitment	5-35
5.6.5	Settlement for Canceled or Delayed Outages for Outage Schedule Adjustments (OSAs)	5-35
5.6.5.1	Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs	5-35
5.6.5.2	RUC Make-Whole Payment and RUC Clawback Charge for Resources Receiving OSAs	5-36
5.6.5.3	Timeline for Calculating RUC Clawback Charges for Resources Receiving OSAs	5-38
5.7	Settlement for RUC Process	5-38
5.7.1	RUC Make-Whole Payment	5-38
5.7.1.1	RUC Guarantee	5-40
5.7.1.2	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue	5-44
5.7.1.3	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours	5-46
5.7.1.4	Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals	5-50
5.7.2	RUC Clawback Charge	5-54
5.7.3	Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource	5-57
5.7.4	RUC Make-Whole Charges	5-62
5.7.4.1	RUC Capacity-Short Charge	5-62
5.7.4.1.1	Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share	5-64
5.7.4.1.2	RUC Capacity Credit	5-81
5.7.4.2	RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge	5-82
5.7.5	RUC Clawback Payment	5-83
5.7.6	RUC Decommitment Charge	5-83
5.7.7 	Settlement of Switchable Generation Resources (SWGRs) Operating in a Non-ERCOT Control Area	5-84
5.8	Annual RUC Reporting Requirement	5-84
 
 
Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment 
5.1	Introduction
(1)	Transmission security analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) are used to ensure ERCOT System reliability and to ensure that enough Resource capacity, in addition to Ancillary Service capacity, is committed in the right locations to reliably serve the forecasted Load on the ERCOT System including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load that has not been curtailed. 
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Transmission security analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) are used to ensure ERCOT System reliability and to ensure that enough Resource capacity and qualified Ancillary Service capacity are committed in the right locations to reliably serve the forecasted Load and Ancillary Service needs on the ERCOT System including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Load that has not been curtailed.
(2)	ERCOT shall conduct at least one Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and at least one Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) before each hour of the Operating Day.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may conduct a RUC at any time to evaluate and resolve reliability issues.
(3)	The DRUC must be run after the close of the Day-Ahead Market (DAM). 
(4)	The DRUC uses Three-Part Supply Offers, capped at the maximum of generic or verifiable minimum energy and Startup Costs, submitted before the DAM by Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) that were considered in the DAM but not awarded in the DAM.  A QSE may not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer to be considered in the DRUC unless the offer was also submitted for consideration in the DAM.
(5)	ERCOT must initiate the HRUC process at least one hour before the Operating Hour to fine-tune the Resource commitments using updated Load forecasts and updated Outage information. 
(6)	The RUC Study Period for DRUC is the next Operating Day.  The RUC Study Period for HRUC is the balance of the current Operating Day plus the next Operating Day if the DRUC for the Operating Day has been solved. 
(7)	HRUC may decommit Resources only to maintain the reliability of the ERCOT System. 
(8)	For each RUC Study Period, the RUC considers capacity requirements for each hour of the RUC Study Period with the objective of minimizing costs based on logic described in Section 5.5.2, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process.
(9)	The calculated Resource commitments arising from each RUC process, and a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, must be reviewed by ERCOT before issuing Dispatch Instructions to QSEs to commit, extend, or decommit Resources.
(10)	The Security Sequence is a set of prerequisite processes for RUC that describes the key system components and inputs that are required to support the RUC process, the RUC process itself, and the ERCOT review of the Resource commitment recommendations made by the RUC process. 
(11)	The RUC process may not be used to buy Ancillary Service unless the Ancillary Service Offers submitted in the DAM are insufficient to meet the requirements of the Ancillary Service Plan.  
[NPRR1009:  Delete paragraph (11) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(12)	After the use of market processes to the fullest extent practicable without jeopardizing the reliability of the ERCOT System, any ERCOT Dispatch Instructions for additional capacity that order a QSE to commit a specific Generation Resource to be On-Line shall be considered a RUC Dispatch for the purpose of the Settlement of payments and charges related to the committed Generation Resource.  An Operating Condition Notice (OCN), Advisory, Watch, or Emergency Notice requesting the available capacity of any currently available Generation Resources but not naming specific Generation Resources is not considered a RUC Dispatch for purposes of Settlement.
(13)	ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area, for each Off-Line Generation Resource that may be selected by an HRUC process, the current time since the Generation Resource last went Off-Line (in hours) and the corresponding start-up times ERCOT is using for each such Off-Line Generation Resource.  The time since the Generation Resource last went Off-Line and start-up times shall be updated at least hourly.
(14)	Prior to 1330 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT may issue a Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to inform a QSE that a Resource is required to be On-Line for all or part of a future Operating Day.  Following the receipt of a WRUC: 
(a)	The QSE may self-commit the Resource for the WRUC-instructed hours by updating the Resource’s Current Operating Plan (COP) to reflect the appropriate On-Line Resource Status for the WRUC-instructed hours prior to the DRUC process execution for the associated Operating Day.  Resources that have been self-committed by a QSE in accordance with a WRUC:
(i)	May have a Three-Part Supply Offer submitted into the DAM, and any of the WRUC-instructed hours in which the Three-Part Supply Offer is awarded in the DAM become DAM-Committed Intervals for the Resource and are settled accordingly; and
(ii)	Will not be issued a RUC commitment for the WRUC-instructed hours that were self-committed or DAM-committed.
(b)	ERCOT will commit the Resource as part of the DRUC process for the relevant Operating Day for all WRUC-instructed hours not DAM-committed or QSE self-committed.  For all purposes, including RUC Settlement, the Resource will be considered as committed by the DRUC for these hours.
(15)	If ERCOT issues an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) pursuant to Section 3.1.4.6, Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions, or Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities, QSEs with Resources that received an OSA shall be made whole to their actual costs incurred due to delaying or canceling and rescheduling the Outage as described in Section 5.6.5.1, Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs.
5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment Timeline Summary 
5.2.1	RUC Normal Timeline Summary
(1)	The following Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Timeline Summary describes the normal timeline for RUC activities that occur in the Day-Ahead and Adjustment Periods.









 


 
5.2.2	RUC Process Timing Deviations
5.2.2.1	RUC Process Timeline After a Delay of the Day-Ahead Market
(1)	If the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) execution is delayed in accordance with Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, ERCOT shall conduct a Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) after 1430 in the Day-Ahead and no earlier than one hour following the posting of DAM awards information on the ERCOT website as set forth in Section 4.5.3, Communicating DAM Results.  In this event, ERCOT will use the Current Operating Plan (COP) and Trades Snapshot taken just prior to the execution of the DRUC to settle RUC charges.
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	If the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) execution is delayed in accordance with Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, ERCOT shall conduct a Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) after 1430 in the Day-Ahead and no earlier than one hour following the posting of DAM awards information on the ERCOT website as set forth in Section 4.5.3, Communicating DAM Results.  In this event, ERCOT will use the RUC Snapshot taken just prior to the execution of the DRUC to settle RUC charges.
5.2.2.2	RUC Process Timeline After an Aborted Day-Ahead Market
(1)	If ERCOT aborts all or part of the Day-Ahead process in accordance with Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, for any reason not due to a Market Suspension, then ERCOT shall use the following Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM) process to purchase Ancillary Services for the next Operating Day and the Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) process described in this Section in lieu of the DRUC process.  If ERCOT aborts the Day-Ahead process due to a Market Suspension, it shall act in accordance with Section 25.3, Market Restart Processes.
(2)	When the DAM is aborted, ERCOT shall include in the Watch notification required by paragraph (2) of Section 4.1.2 the time when it intends to conduct the SASM described in this Section 5.2.2.2 to procure the amounts of Ancillary Services necessary to meet the Ancillary Service Plan for the Operating Day affected by the aborted DAM.  ERCOT shall allow at least one hour between the issuance of the Watch and the beginning of this SASM.
(3)	After the issuance of the Watch described in paragraph (2) above and prior to the beginning of this SASM, a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) may cancel unexpired Ancillary Service Offers that were submitted for the aborted DAM.
(4)	A QSE may submit Ancillary Service Offers for this SASM after the issuance of the Watch described in paragraph (2) above and prior to the beginning of this SASM.
(5)	For this SASM, the QSE must submit the Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity for the next Operating Day in accordance with the timeline described in paragraph (3) of Section 6.4.9.2, Supplemental Ancillary Services Market.  This amount may be different from the self-arrangement amounts previously submitted for the aborted DAM.
(6)	The amount of each Ancillary Service to be procured by ERCOT in this SASM is the amount of each Ancillary Service specified in the ERCOT Ancillary Service Plan posted prior to the aborted DAM less the total amount of each Ancillary Service in the QSE submittals for self-arranged Ancillary Services for this SASM.
(7)	This SASM will settle in accordance with Section 6.7, Real-Time Settlement Calculations for the Ancillary Services.
(8)	The SASM process for acquiring Ancillary Services in the event of an aborted Day-Ahead process shall be conducted in accordance with Section 6.4.9.2.2, SASM Clearing Process, but shall use the following activities and timeline as specified in paragraph (3) of Section 6.4.9.2, with time “X” being the time specified by ERCOT for the beginning of the SASM process in the Watch notification described above.
(9)	As soon as practicable, but no later than the time specified in paragraph (3) of Section 6.4.9.2, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its awarded Ancillary Service Offer quantities, specifying Resource, Ancillary Service type, SASM Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC), and the first and last hours of the awarded offer.
(10)	As soon as practicable, but no later than the time specified in paragraph (3) of Section 6.4.9.2, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the hourly:
(a)	SASM MCPC for each type of Ancillary Service for each hour;
(b)	Total Ancillary Service procured in MW by Ancillary Service type for each hour; and
(c)	Aggregated Ancillary Service Offer Curve for each Ancillary Service for each hour.
(11)	No sooner than 1800 in the Day-Ahead and after the completion of the SASM process described in this Section 5.2.2.2, ERCOT shall execute an HRUC process. 
(a)	The RUC Study Period for this HRUC process is the balance of the current Operating Day plus the next Operating Day.  This HRUC process may be a post-1800 HRUC for the current Operating Day.
(b)	The COP and Trades Snapshot taken just prior to the execution of the HRUC process described in this Section 5.2.2.2 will be used to settle RUC charges in the Operating Day affected by the aborted DAM.
(c)	This HRUC process described in this Section 5.2.2.2 may commit Resources to supply Ancillary Services if the Ancillary Service Offers submitted in the SASM described in this Section 5.2.2.2 are insufficient to meet the requirements of the Ancillary Services Plan in the Operating Day affected by the aborted DAM.
(d)	A QSE may request cancellation of a RUC instruction to supply Ancillary Services if the Resource requested is not capable of providing the Ancillary Services due to equipment issues that are the result of non-frequency responsive power augmentation or other Resource control issues.  If ERCOT accepts the cancellation, ERCOT may require QSEs to submit supporting information describing the Resource control issues.
[NPRR1009:  Replace Section 5.2.2.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
5.2.2.2	RUC Process Timeline After an Aborted Day-Ahead Market
(1)	If ERCOT aborts all or part of the Day-Ahead process in accordance with Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, for any reason not due to a Market Suspension, then ERCOT shall use the Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) process described in this Section in lieu of the DRUC process.  If ERCOT aborts the Day-Ahead process due to a Market Suspension, it shall act in accordance with Section 25.3, Market Restart Processes.
5.3	ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall start the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) process at 1430 in the Day-Ahead.
(2)	For each DRUC, ERCOT shall use a snapshot of Resource commitments taken at 1430 in the Day-Ahead for Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Settlement.  For each Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC), ERCOT shall use a snapshot of Resource commitments from each Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) most recently submitted Current Operating Plan (COP) before HRUC execution for RUC Settlement.  
(3)	For each RUC process, ERCOT shall: 
(a)	Execute the Security Sequence described in Section 5.5, Security Sequence, Including RUC, including:
(i)	Validating Three-Part Supply Offers, defined in Section 4.4.9.1, Three-Part Supply Offers;
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace item (i) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(i)	Validating Three-Part Supply Offers, defined in Section 4.4.9.1, Three-Part Supply Offers, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, defined in Section 4.4.9.7, Energy Bid/Offer Curve, and Ancillary Service Offers, defined in Section 4.4.7.2, Ancillary Service Offers;
(ii)	Reviewing the Resource commitment recommendations made by the RUC algorithm; and
(iii)	Reviewing the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less;
(b)	Post to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area all Resources that were committed or decommitted by the RUC process including verbal RUC commitments and decommitments and Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) instructions; 
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	Post to the ERCOT website all Resources that were committed or decommitted by the RUC process including verbal RUC commitments and decommitments and Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) instructions;
(c)	Post to the ERCOT website all active and binding transmission constraints (contingency and overloaded element pair information where available) used as inputs to the RUC;
(d)	Issue Dispatch Instructions to notify each QSE of its Resource commitments or decommitments; and
(e)	Post to the MIS Secure Area all Resources that were committed by the RUC process, including verbal RUC commitments, but were subsequently cancelled by the ERCOT Operator.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(e)	Post to the ERCOT website all Resources that were committed by the RUC process, including verbal RUC commitments, but were subsequently cancelled by the ERCOT Operator.
(4)	ERCOT shall provide each QSE with the information necessary to pre-validate their data for DRUC and HRUC, including publishing validation rules for offers, bids, and trades.
5.4	QSE Security Sequence Responsibilities
(1)	During the Security Sequence, each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) must: 
(a)	Submit its Current Operating Plan (COP) and update its COP as required in Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP);
(b)	Submit any Three-Part Supply Offers before: 
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(b)	Submit any Three-Part Supply Offers, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, and Ancillary Service Offers before:
(i)	1000 in the Day-Ahead for the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) being run in that Day-Ahead, if the QSE wants the offer to be used in those DAM and DRUC processes; and 
(ii)	The end of the Adjustment Period for each Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC), if the QSE wants the offer to be used in the HRUC process;  
(c)	Submit any Capacity Trades before 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the DRUC and before the end of the Adjustment Period for each HRUC, if the QSE wants those Capacity Trades included in the calculation of Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Settlement; 
(d)	Submit any Energy Trades and Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules corresponding to Electronic Tags (e-Tags) before 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the DRUC and by the end of the Adjustment Period for each HRUC; if the QSE wants those Energy Trades and DC Tie Schedules included in the calculation of RUC Settlement;
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (d) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(d)	Submit any Energy Trades, Ancillary Service Trades, and Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules corresponding to Electronic Tags (e-Tags) before 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the DRUC and by the end of the Adjustment Period for each HRUC; if the QSE wants those Energy Trades and DC Tie Schedules included in the calculation of RUC Settlement;
(e)	Submit an updated COP before 1430 in the Day-Ahead that shows the specific Resources that will be used to supply the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility; and  
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(e)	Submit an updated COP before 1430 in the Day-Ahead; and
(f)	Acknowledge receipt of Resource commitment or decommitment Dispatch Instructions by submitting an updated COP.
[NPRR1009:  Insert Section 5.4.1 below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
5.4.1	Ancillary Service Positions
(1)	A QSE’s Ancillary Service Position is the net amount of Ancillary Service capacity to which the QSE has financially committed in the ERCOT market, by hour and service type, from self-arrangement, trades, and awards.  The Ancillary Service Position is the difference in MW, by hour and service type, between the amounts specified in items (a) and (b) defined as follows:
(a)	The sum of:
(i)	The QSE’s Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantity; plus
(ii)	The total (in MW) of Ancillary Service Trades for which the QSE is the seller; plus
(iii)	Awards to the QSE of Ancillary Service Offers in the DAM; and 
(b)	The sum of:
(i)	The total Ancillary Service Trades for which the QSE is the buyer.
5.5	Security Sequence, Including RUC
5.5.1	Security Sequence
(1)	The figure below highlights the key computational modules and processes that are used in the Security Sequence:
 
(2)	The Security Sequence uses computational modules functionally similar to those used in Real-Time Sequence, however, the inputs into the Security Sequence are based on a snapshot of projected hourly system conditions and constraints rather than Real-Time data.   
(3)	The Security Sequence uses the status of all transmission breakers and switches (current status for the first hour and normal status for all other hours of Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) and normal status for all hours of Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC)), updated for approved Planned Outages for equipment out of service and returned to service for building a representation of the ERCOT Transmission Grid for each hour of the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Study Period.  The Network Topology Processor constructs a network model for each hour that must be used by the Bus Load Forecast to estimate the hourly Load for each transmission bus.    
(4)	The weather forecast obtained by ERCOT must be provided to the Dynamic Rating Processor to create weather-adjusted MVA limits for each hour of the RUC Study Period for all transmission lines and transformers that have Dynamic Ratings.
(5)	ERCOT shall analyze base configuration, select n-1 contingencies and select n-2 contingencies under the Operating Guides.  The Operating Guides must also specify the criteria by which ERCOT may remove contingencies from the list.  ERCOT shall post to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area the standard contingency list, including identification of changes from previous versions before being used in the Security Sequence.  ERCOT shall evaluate the need for Resource-specific deployments during Real-Time operations for management of congestion consistent with the Operating Guides.
(6)	ERCOT shall also post to the MIS Secure Area any contingencies temporarily removed from the standard contingency list by ERCOT immediately after successful execution of the Security Sequence.  ERCOT shall include the reason for removal of any contingency as soon as practicable but not later than one hour after removal. 
(7)	As part of the Network Security Analysis (NSA), for each hour of the RUC Study Period, ERCOT shall analyze all selected contingencies and perform the following:
(a)	Perform full AC analysis of all contingencies;
(b)	Monitor element and bus voltage limit violations; and
(c)	Monitor transmission line and transformer security violations. 
(8)	As part of the NSA, if there is an approved Remedial Action Plan (RAP) available, it must be used before considering a Resource commitment.
(9)	ERCOT shall review all security violations prior to RUC execution.  
(10)	All Remedial Action Schemes (RASs), Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs) and RAPs modeled in the Network Operations Model shall be included in the contingency analysis.  The computational modules must enable ERCOT to analyze contingencies, including the effects of all RASs and AMPs included in the Network Operations Model. 
(11)	ERCOT may deselect certain contingencies known to cause errors or that otherwise result in inconclusive study output in the RUC.  On continued de-selection of contingencies, ERCOT shall prepare an analysis to determine the cause of the error.  ERCOT may use information from the Day-Ahead processes as decision support during the Hour-Ahead processes.  ERCOT shall post to the MIS Secure Area any contingencies deselected by ERCOT and must include the reason for removal as soon as practicable, but not later than one hour after deselection.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (11) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(11)	ERCOT may deselect certain contingencies known to cause errors or that otherwise result in inconclusive study output in the RUC.  On continued de-selection of contingencies, ERCOT shall prepare an analysis to determine the cause of the error.  ERCOT may use information from the Day-Ahead processes as decision support during the Hour-Ahead processes.  ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website any contingencies deselected by ERCOT and must include the reason for removal as soon as practicable, but not later than one hour after deselection.
5.5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process
(1)	The RUC process recommends commitment of Generation Resources, to match ERCOT’s forecasted Load including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules, subject to all transmission constraints and Resource performance characteristics.  The RUC process takes into account Resources already committed in the Current Operating Plans (COPs), Resources already committed in previous RUCs, Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, and Resource capacity already committed to provide Ancillary Service.  The formulation of the RUC objective function must employ penalty factors on violations of security constraints.  The objective of the RUC process is to minimize costs based on the Resource costs described in paragraphs (5) through (9) below.  For all hours of the RUC Study Period within the RUC process, Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) with a COP Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as On-Line with Low Sustained Limit (LSL) at zero MW.  QSGRs with a Resource Status of OFFQS shall only be committed by ERCOT through a RUC instruction in instances when a reliability issue would not otherwise be managed through Dispatch Instructions from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  For On-Line Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), the Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC) values provided in the COP for a given hour are discounted to ensure sufficient SOC is preserved to meet Ancillary Service Resource Responsibilities, as reflected in the COP.  Any remaining SOC on the ESR will be considered available for energy dispatch by RUC while respecting the Minimum State of Charge (MinSOC) and Maximum State of Charge (MaxSOC) values provided in the COP.
(2)	The RUC process can recommend Resource decommitment.  ERCOT may only decommit a Resource to resolve transmission constraints that are otherwise unresolvable. Qualifying Facilities (QFs) may be decommitted only after all other types of Resources have been assessed for decommitment.  In addition, the HRUC process provides decision support to ERCOT regarding a Resource decommitment requested by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(3)	ERCOT shall review the RUC-recommended Resource commitments and the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less to assess feasibility and shall make any changes that it considers necessary, in its sole discretion.  During the RUC process, ERCOT may also review and commit, through a RUC instruction, Combined Cycle Generation Resources that are currently planned to be On-Line but are capable of transitioning to a configuration with additional capacity.  ERCOT may deselect Resources recommended in DRUC and in all HRUC processes if in ERCOT’s sole discretion there is enough time to commit those Resources in the future HRUC processes, taking into account the Resources’ start-up times, to meet ERCOT System reliability.  After each RUC run, ERCOT shall post the amount of capacity deselected per hour in the RUC Study Period to the MIS Secure Area.  A Generation Resource shown as On-Line and available for SCED dispatch for an hour in its COP prior to a DRUC or HRUC process execution, according to Section 5.3, ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities, will be considered self-committed for that hour.  For purpose of Settlement, snapshot data will be used as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.  ERCOT shall issue RUC instructions to each QSE specifying its Resources that have been committed as a result of the RUC process.  ERCOT shall, within one day after making any changes to the RUC-recommended commitments, post to the MIS Secure Area any changes that ERCOT made to the RUC-recommended commitments with an explanation of the changes.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall review the RUC-recommended Resource commitments and the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less to assess feasibility and shall make any changes that it considers necessary, in its sole discretion.  During the RUC process, ERCOT may also review and commit, through a RUC instruction, Combined Cycle Generation Resources that are currently planned to be On-Line but are capable of transitioning to a configuration with additional capacity.  ERCOT may deselect Resources recommended in DRUC and in all HRUC processes if in ERCOT’s sole discretion there is enough time to commit those Resources in the future HRUC processes, taking into account the Resources’ start-up times, to meet ERCOT System reliability.  After each RUC run, ERCOT shall post the amount of capacity deselected per hour in the RUC Study Period to the ERCOT website.  A Generation Resource shown as On-Line and available for SCED dispatch for an hour in its COP prior to a DRUC or HRUC process execution, according to Section 5.3, ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities, will be considered self-committed for that hour.  For purpose of Settlement, snapshot data will be used as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.  ERCOT shall issue RUC instructions to each QSE specifying its Resources that have been committed as a result of the RUC process.  ERCOT shall, within one day after making any changes to the RUC-recommended commitments, post to the ERCOT website any changes that ERCOT made to the RUC-recommended commitments with an explanation of the changes.
(4)	A QSE shall notify the ERCOT Operator of any physical limitation that impacts its Resource’s ability to start that is not reflected in the Resource’s COP or the Resource’s startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.  The following shall apply:
(a)	If a Resource receives a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it cannot meet due to a physical limitation described in paragraph (4) above, the QSE representing the Resource shall notify the ERCOT Operator of the inability to fully comply with the instruction and shall comply with the instruction to the best of the Resource’s ability.  If the QSE has provided the ERCOT Operator notice of that limitation at least seven days prior to the Operating Day in which the instruction occurs, the QSE shall be excused from complying with the portion of the RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to the identified limitation.  
(b)	If a QSE provides notice pursuant to paragraph (a) above of a physical limitation that will delay the RUC-committed Resource’s ability to reach its LSL in accordance with a RUC Dispatch Instruction, ERCOT shall extend the RUC Dispatch Instruction so that the Resource’s minimum run time is respected. However, if the Resource will not be available in time to address the issue for which it received the RUC instruction, ERCOT may instead cancel the RUC Dispatch Instruction.
(5)	A QSE shall be excused from complying with any portion of a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to a physical limitation that was reflected, at the time of the RUC Dispatch Instruction, in the Resource’s COP, startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.
(6)	To determine the projected energy output level of each Resource and to project potential congestion patterns for each hour of the RUC, ERCOT shall calculate proxy Energy Offer Curves based on the Mitigated Offer Caps (MOCs) for the type of Resource as specified in Section 4.4.9.4, Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor, for use in the RUC.  Proxy Energy Offer Curves are calculated by multiplying the MOC by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.10% and applying the cost for all Generation Resource output between High Sustained Limit (HSL) and LSL.  The intent of this process is to minimize the effect of the proxy Energy Offer Curves on optimization.
(7)	ERCOT shall use the RUC process to evaluate the need to commit Resources for which a QSE has submitted Three-Part Supply Offers and other available Off-Line Resources in addition to Resources that are planned to be On-Line during the RUC Study Period.  All of the above commitment information must be as specified in the QSE’s COP.  For available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (9) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, Current Operating Plan (COP) Performance Requirements, the Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offer from a Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer shall not be used in the RUC process. 
(8)	ERCOT shall create Three-Part Supply Offers for all Resources that did not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer, but are specified as available but Off-Line, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of EMR, in a QSE’s COP.  For such Resources, excluding available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (9) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall use in the RUC process 100% of any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as described specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, registered with ERCOT.  Also, for Settlement purposes, ERCOT shall use any approved verifiable Startup Costs and verifiable minimum-energy cost for such Resources, or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost.
(9)	For all available Off-Line Resources having a cold start time of one hour or less and not removed from special consideration pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall scale any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3 for use in the RUC process.  
The above parameter is defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
1HRLESSCOSTSCALING	Percentage	Maximum value of 100%
*  The current value for the parameter(s) referenced in this table above will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter value(s) on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(10)	The RUC process must treat all Resource capacity providing Ancillary Service as unavailable for the RUC Study Period, unless that treatment leads to infeasibility (i.e., that capacity is needed to resolve some local transmission problem that cannot be resolved by any other means).  If an ERCOT Operator decides that the Ancillary Service capacity allocated to that Resource is infeasible based on ERCOT System conditions, then, ERCOT shall inform each affected QSE of the amount of its Resource capacity that does not qualify to provide Ancillary Service, and the projected hours for which this is the case.  In that event, the affected QSE may, under Section 6.4.9.1.2, Replacement of Infeasible Ancillary Service Due to Transmission Constraints, either:
(a)	Substitute capacity from Resources represented by that QSE;
(b)	Substitute capacity from other QSEs using Ancillary Service Trades; or 
(c)	Ask ERCOT to replace the capacity.   
(11)	Factors included in the RUC process are: 
(a)	ERCOT System-wide hourly Load forecast allocated appropriately over Load buses;
(b)	Transmission constraints – Transfer limits on energy flows through the electricity network;
(i)	Thermal constraints – protect transmission facilities against thermal overload;
(ii)	Generic constraints – protect the transmission system against transient instability, dynamic instability or voltage collapse;
(c)	Planned transmission topology;
(d)	Energy sufficiency constraints;
(e)	Inputs from the COP, as appropriate;
(f)	Inputs from Resource Parameters, including a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, as appropriate;
(g)	Each Generation Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer and Startup Offer, from its Three-Part Supply Offer;
(h)	Any Generation Resource that is Off-Line and available but does not have a Three-Part Supply Offer;
(i)	Forced Outage information; and
(j)	Inputs from the eight-day look ahead planning tool, which may potentially keep a unit On-Line (or start a unit for the next day) so that a unit minimum duration between starts does not limit the availability of the unit (for security reasons).  
(12)	The HRUC process and the DRUC process are as follows:
(a)	The HRUC process uses current Resource Status for the initial condition for the first hour of the RUC Study Period.  All HRUC processes use the projected status of transmission breakers and switches starting with current status and updated for each remaining hour in the study as indicated in the COP for Resources and in the Outage Scheduler for transmission elements. 
(b)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules for each hour in the RUC Study Period.
(c)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead weather forecast for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the weather forecast information for each hour of the balance of the RUC Study Period.
(13)	A QSE that has one or more of its Resources RUC-committed to provide Ancillary Services must increase its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility by the total amount of RUC-committed Ancillary Service quantities.  The QSE may only use a RUC-committed Resource to meet its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility during that Resource’s RUC-Committed Interval if the Resource has been committed by the RUC process to provide Ancillary Service, or the Resource is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was RUC-committed to transition from one On-Line configuration to a different configuration with additional capacity.  For cases in which the commitment was to provide Ancillary Service, the QSE shall indicate the exact amount and type of Ancillary Service for which it was committed as the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility and Ancillary Services Schedule for the RUC-Committed Intervals for both telemetry and COP information provided to ERCOT.  Upon deployment of the Ancillary Services, the QSE shall adjust its Ancillary Services Schedule to reflect the amounts requested in the deployment.
(14)	A QSE with a Resource that is not a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit or has not received an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) that has been committed in a DRUC or HRUC process may opt out of the RUC Settlement (or “buy back” the commitment) by setting the COP status of the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  All the configurations of the same Combined Cycle Train shall be treated as the same Resource for the purpose of creating the block of RUC-Committed Hours.  A RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource may opt out of the RUC Settlement by setting the COP status of any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the same Combined Cycle Train as the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  A Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is RUC-committed from one On-Line configuration in order to transition to a different configuration with additional capacity may opt out of the RUC Settlement following the same rule for RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources described above.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement forfeits RUC Settlement for the affected Resource for a given block of RUC Buy-Back Hours.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement treatment must make the Resource available to SCED for all RUC Buy-Back Hours.  All hours in a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours that includes the RUC Buy-Back Hour shall be considered RUC Buy-Back Hours.  If a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours spans more than one Operating Day and a QSE wishes to opt out of RUC Settlement for the RUC-Committed Hours in the second or subsequent Operating Day, the QSE must set its COP status to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of the first Operating Day in the Opt Out Snapshot of the first Operating Day.
(15)	ERCOT shall, as soon as practicable, post to the MIS Secure Area a report identifying those hours that were considered RUC Buy-Back Hours, along with the name of each RUC-committed Resource whose QSE opted out of RUC Settlement.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (15) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(15)	ERCOT shall, as soon as practicable, post to the ERCOT website a report identifying those hours that were considered RUC Buy-Back Hours, along with the name of each RUC-committed Resource whose QSE opted out of RUC Settlement.
(16)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and subsequently receives a RUC commitment for the Operating Hour for which it was awarded will be treated as if the telemetered Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, and Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Price Adder.
(17)	A Resource that has self-committed for an Operating Hour after the RUC Snapshot was taken but before the RUC commitment has been communicated through an XML message for that RUC process and that Operating Hour is included in a block of RUC-committed hours for that RUC process will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Section 6.5.7.3.1, Operating Reserve Demand Curve (ORDC) calculations, and RUC Settlement for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  A QSE that has a Resource that meets these conditions must make the Resource available to SCED for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  ERCOT will send the QSE a notification stating the Operating Day and block of hours for which this occurred.
[NPRR1009, NPRR1032, NPRR1204, NPRR1239, and NPRR1245:  Replace applicable portions of Section 5.5.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009, NPRR1204, and NPRR1245; or upon system implementation for NPRR1032 or NPRR1239:]
5.5.2	Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process
(1)	The RUC process recommends commitment of Generation Resources, to match ERCOT’s forecasted Load including Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules and RUC Ancillary Service Demand Curves (ASDCs), subject to all transmission constraints and Resource performance characteristics.  The RUC process takes into account Resources already committed in the Current Operating Plans (COPs), Resources already committed in previous RUCs, and Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less.  For On-Line Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), using RUC duration requirements for energy and Ancillary Services, RUC-projected dispatch for energy and Ancillary Service in one interval shall respect the ESR’s minimum and maximum State of Charge (SOC) values from the COP, while incorporating any adjustments under paragraph (19)(d) below.  In addition, using the Ancillary Service Deployment Factors and their respective deployment duration requirements, the SOC required to support these dispatch levels for energy and Ancillary Services will match as closely as possible the difference between the adjusted COP values of the next interval’s Hour Beginning Planned SOC and the current interval’s Hour Beginning Planned SOC.  The formulation of the RUC objective function must employ penalty factors on violations of security constraints and violations of ESR COP Hour Beginning Planned SOC.  The objective of the RUC process is to minimize costs based on the Resource costs described in paragraphs (11) through (15) below.  ESR energy dispatch costs and Ancillary Service Offer costs are not included in the RUC objective function.
(2)	ERCOT shall create an ASDC for each Ancillary Service for use in RUC.  ERCOT shall post the ASDCs to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable after any change to the ASDCs.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the following Ancillary Service Deployment Factor data on the ERCOT website:
(a)	Following each execution of RUC, ERCOT shall post the Ancillary Service Deployment Factors used by that RUC process for each hour in the RUC Study Period;
(b)	No later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead for each Operating Day, ERCOT shall post the Ancillary Service Deployments Factors that are projected to be used in the RUC process for that Operating Day; and
(c)	Following each month, ERCOT shall post the average, minimum, and maximum Ancillary Service Deployment Factors used in the RUC process by type of Ancillary Service and hour of the day for the month.
(4)	For all hours of the RUC Study Period within the RUC process, Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) with a COP Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as On-Line with Low Sustained Limit (LSL) at zero MW.  QSGRs with a Resource Status of OFFQS shall only be committed by ERCOT through a RUC instruction in instances when a reliability issue would not otherwise be managed through Dispatch Instructions from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED). 
(5)	In addition to On-Line qualified Generation Resources and ESRs, the RUC engine shall consider a COP Resource status of OFFQS for QSGRs that are qualified for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), as being eligible to provide ECRS constrained by the Ancillary Service capability in the COP.
(6)	In addition to On-Line qualified Generation Resources and ESRs, the RUC engine shall consider a COP Resource Status of OFFQS for QSGRs that are qualified for Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), as being eligible to provide Non-Spin constrained by the Ancillary Service Capability in the COP.  The RUC engine shall also consider a COP Resource Status of OFF (Off-Line but available for commitment in the DAM and RUC) for a Resource that is qualified for Non-Spin, as being eligible to provide Non-Spin constrained by the Ancillary Service capability in the COP.
(7)	In addition to On-Line qualified Generation Resources and ESRs, the RUC engine shall consider a COP Resource Status of ONL for Load Resources that are qualified for Ancillary Services, as being eligible to provide Ancillary Services constrained by the Ancillary Service Capability in the COP.  The RUC engine will not consider any Load Resources for dispatch of energy.
(8)	The RUC process can recommend Resource decommitment.  ERCOT may only decommit a Resource to resolve transmission constraints that are otherwise unresolvable.  Qualifying Facilities (QFs) may be decommitted only after all other types of Resources have been assessed for decommitment.  In addition, the HRUC process provides decision support to ERCOT regarding a Resource decommitment requested by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(9)	ERCOT shall review the RUC-recommended Resource commitments and the list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less to assess feasibility and shall make any changes that it considers necessary, in its sole discretion.  During the RUC process, ERCOT may also review and commit, through a RUC instruction, Combined Cycle Generation Resources that are currently planned to be On-Line but are capable of transitioning to a configuration with additional capacity.  ERCOT may deselect Resources recommended in DRUC and in all HRUC processes if in ERCOT’s sole discretion there is enough time to commit those Resources in the future HRUC processes, taking into account the Resources’ start-up times, to meet ERCOT System reliability.  After each RUC run, ERCOT shall post the amount of capacity deselected per hour in the RUC Study Period to the ERCOT website.  A Generation Resource shown as On-Line and available for SCED dispatch for an hour in its COP prior to a DRUC or HRUC process execution, according to Section 5.3, ERCOT Security Sequence Responsibilities, will be considered self-committed for that hour.  For purpose of Settlement, snapshot data will be used as specified in paragraph (2) of Section 5.3.  
(10)	ERCOT shall issue RUC instructions to each QSE specifying its Resources that have been committed as a result of the RUC process.  ERCOT shall, within one day after making any changes to the RUC-recommended commitments, post to the ERCOT website any changes that ERCOT made to the RUC-recommended commitments with an explanation of the changes.
(11)	ERCOT shall use the RUC process to evaluate the need to commit Resources for which a QSE has submitted Three-Part Supply Offers and other available Off-Line Resources in addition to Resources that are planned to be On-Line during the RUC Study Period.  All of the above commitment information must be as specified in the QSE’s COP.  For available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (17) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, Current Operating Plan (COP) Performance Requirements, the Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offer from a Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer shall not be used in the RUC process. 
(12)	ERCOT shall create Three-Part Supply Offers for all Resources that did not submit a Three-Part Supply Offer, but are specified as available but Off-Line, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of EMR, in a QSE’s COP.  For such Resources, excluding available Off-Line Resources with a cold start time of one hour or less that have not been removed from special consideration under paragraph (15) below pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall use in the RUC process 100% of any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as described specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, registered with ERCOT.  Also, for Settlement purposes, ERCOT shall use any approved verifiable Startup Costs and verifiable minimum-energy cost for such Resources, or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost.
(13)	A QSE shall notify the ERCOT Operator of any physical limitation that impacts its Resource’s ability to start that is not reflected in the Resource’s COP or the Resource’s startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.  The following shall apply:
(a)	If a Resource receives a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it cannot meet due to a physical limitation described in paragraph (5) above, the QSE representing the Resource shall notify the ERCOT Operator of the inability to fully comply with the instruction and shall comply with the instruction to the best of the Resource’s ability.  If the QSE has provided the ERCOT Operator notice of that limitation at least seven days prior to the Operating Day in which the instruction occurs, the QSE shall be excused from complying with the portion of the RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to the identified limitation.  
(b)	If a QSE provides notice pursuant to paragraph (a) above of a physical limitation that will delay the RUC-committed Resource’s ability to reach its LSL in accordance with a RUC Dispatch Instruction, ERCOT shall extend the RUC Dispatch Instruction so that the Resource’s minimum run time is respected. However, if the Resource will not be available in time to address the issue for which it received the RUC instruction, ERCOT may instead cancel the RUC Dispatch Instruction.
(14)	A QSE shall be excused from complying with any portion of a RUC Dispatch Instruction that it could not meet due to a physical limitation that was reflected, at the time of the RUC Dispatch Instruction, in the Resource’s COP, startup time, minimum On-Line time, or minimum Off-Line time.
(15)	To determine the projected energy output level of each Resource and to project potential congestion patterns for each hour of the RUC, ERCOT shall calculate proxy Energy Offer Curves based on the Mitigated Offer Caps (MOCs) for the type of Resource as specified in Section 4.4.9.4, Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor, for use in the RUC.  Proxy Energy Offer Curves are calculated by multiplying the MOC by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.10% and applying the cost for all Generation Resource output between High Sustained Limit (HSL) and LSL.  The intent of this process is to minimize the effect of the proxy Energy Offer Curves on optimization.  For ESRs, energy dispatch costs are not considered in determining projected energy output levels.
(16)	ERCOT shall calculate proxy Ancillary Service Offer Curves for use in RUC based on validated Ancillary Service Offers as specified in Section 4.4.7.2, Ancillary Service Offers.  For all Resources that do not have a valid Ancillary Service Offer but are qualified to provide an Ancillary Service, ERCOT shall create an Ancillary Service Offer Curve for use in RUC as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.  Proxy Ancillary Service Offer Curves for use in RUC are calculated by multiplying the Ancillary Service Offer by a constant selected by ERCOT from time to time that is no more than 0.1%, and are extended between the HSL and LSL.  Notwithstanding the presence or absence of a proxy Ancillary Service Offer, Ancillary Service provision in RUC shall be limited by the Resource’s Ancillary Service capabilities as reflected in the COP.  For ESRs, Ancillary Service Offer costs are not considered in determining projected Ancillary Service awards.
(17)	For all available Off-Line Resources having a cold start time of one hour or less and not removed from special consideration pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.2, ERCOT shall scale any approved verifiable Startup Cost and verifiable minimum-energy cost or if verifiable costs have not been approved, the applicable Resource Category Generic Startup Offer Cost and the applicable Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Offer Cost as specified in Section 4.4.9.2.3 for use in the RUC process.  
The above parameter is defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
1HRLESSCOSTSCALING	Percentage	Maximum value of 100%
*  The current value for the parameter(s) referenced in this table above will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter value(s) on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(18)	Factors included in the RUC process are: 
(a)	ERCOT System-wide hourly Load forecast allocated appropriately over Load buses;
(b)	ERCOT’s Ancillary Service Plans in the form of ASDCs;
(c)	Transmission constraints – Transfer limits on energy flows through the electricity network;
(i)	Thermal constraints – protect transmission facilities against thermal overload;
(ii)	Generic constraints – protect the transmission system against transient instability, dynamic instability or voltage collapse;
(d)	Planned transmission topology;
(e)	Energy sufficiency constraints, including RUC duration requirements for energy and Ancillary Services;
(f)	Inputs from the COP, as appropriate;
(g)	Inputs from Resource Parameters, including a list of Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less, as appropriate;
(h)	Each Generation Resource’s Minimum-Energy Offer and Startup Offer, from its Three-Part Supply Offer;
(i)	Any Generation Resource that is Off-Line and available but does not have a Three-Part Supply Offer;
(j)	Forced Outage information;
(k)	Inputs from the eight-day look ahead planning tool, which may potentially keep a unit On-Line (or start a unit for the next day) so that a unit minimum duration between starts does not limit the availability of the unit (for security reasons); and
(l)	Ancillary Service Deployment Factors. 
(19)	The HRUC process and the DRUC process are as follows:
(a)	The HRUC process uses current Resource Status for the initial condition for the first hour of the RUC Study Period.  All HRUC processes use the projected status of transmission breakers and switches starting with current status and updated for each remaining hour in the study as indicated in the COP for Resources and in the Outage Scheduler for transmission elements. 
(b)	The DRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules up to the physical rating of the DC Tie for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the current hourly forecast of total ERCOT Load including DC Tie Schedules up to the physical rating of the DC Tie for each hour in the RUC Study Period.
(c)	The DRUC process uses the Day-Ahead weather forecast for each hour of the Operating Day.  The HRUC process uses the weather forecast information for each hour of the balance of the RUC Study Period.
(d)	For the HRUC, DRUC, and Weekly Reliability Unit Commitment (WRUC) processes, a feasibility check on the COP submitted Hour Beginning Planned SOC will be performed.  This check may adjust the Hour Beginning Planned SOC used in the RUC process.  The feasibility check looks sequentially across all intervals in the RUC Study Period to validate whether a particular interval’s COP Hour Beginning Planned SOC is achievable from the previous interval.  If it is not feasible, then RUC will adjust the Hour Beginning Planned SOC to the closest achievable value.
(20)	A QSE with a Resource that is not a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Unit or has not received an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) that has been committed in a DRUC or HRUC process may opt out of the RUC Settlement (or “buy back” the commitment) by setting the COP status of the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  All the configurations of the same Combined Cycle Train shall be treated as the same Resource for the purpose of creating the block of RUC-Committed Hours.  A RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource may opt out of the RUC Settlement by setting the COP status of any Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the same Combined Cycle Train as the RUC-committed Resource to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours in the Opt Out Snapshot.  A Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is RUC-committed from one On-Line configuration in order to transition to a different configuration with additional capacity may opt out of the RUC Settlement following the same rule for RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources described above.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement forfeits RUC Settlement for the affected Resource for a given block of RUC Buy-Back Hours.  A QSE that opts out of RUC Settlement treatment must make the Resource available to SCED for all RUC Buy-Back Hours.  All hours in a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours that includes the RUC Buy-Back Hour shall be considered RUC Buy-Back Hours.  If a contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours spans more than one Operating Day and a QSE wishes to opt out of RUC Settlement for the RUC-Committed Hours in the second or subsequent Operating Day, the QSE must set its COP status to ONOPTOUT for the first hour of that the first Operating Day in the Opt Out Snapshot of the first Operating Day.
(21)	ERCOT shall, as soon as practicable, post to the ERCOT website a report identifying those hours that were considered RUC Buy-Back Hours, along with the name of each RUC-committed Resource whose QSE opted out of RUC Settlement.
(22)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and subsequently receives a RUC commitment for the Operating Hour for which it was awarded will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3 and Section 6.5.7.3.1, Determination of Real-Time Reliability Deployment Price Adders.
(23)	A Resource that has self-committed for an Operating Hour after the RUC Snapshot was taken but before the RUC commitment has been communicated through an XML message for that RUC process and that Operating Hour is included in a block of RUC-committed hours for that RUC process will be treated as if the Resource Status was ONOPTOUT for purposes of Section 6.5.7.3, Section 6.5.7.3.1, and RUC Settlement for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  A QSE that has a Resource that meets these conditions must make the Resource available to SCED for the entire block of RUC-committed hours.  ERCOT will send the QSE a notification stating the Operating Day and block of hours for which this occurred.
5.5.3	Communication of RUC Commitments and Decommitments
(1)	The output of the RUC process is the cleared Resource commitments and decommitments, and a list of the Off-Line Available Resources having a start-up time of one hour or less.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify each QSE in the Day-Ahead of the DRUC Resource commitments and advisory decommitments that have been cleared by the RUC for the Resources that QSE represents.  ERCOT shall notify each QSE of the HRUC Resource commitments and decommitments that have been cleared by the RUC for the Resources that QSE represents.  Resource commitments must include the start interval and duration for which the Resource is required to be at least at LSL.  Resource decommitments must include the interval in which the Resource is required to be Off-Line, duration, and reason for the decommitment.  ERCOT shall notify each QSE representing an RMR Unit if that unit has been cleared by the DRUC or HRUC process at the same time that the DRUC and HRUC participants are notified of the results of each such process.  
(3)	If ERCOT communicates HRUC commitments and decommitments verbally to a QSE, then the same Resource attributes communicated programmatically must be communicated when ERCOT gives a verbal Resource commitment or decommitment.
(4)	The QSE shall acknowledge the notice or commitment or decommitment by changing the Resource Status of the affected Resources in the COP for RUC-Committed Intervals.
5.6	RUC Cost Eligibility
5.6.1	Verifiable Costs
(1)	The Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) is responsible for submitting verifiable costs unless both the QSE and Resource Entity agree that the Resource Entity will have this responsibility, in which case both the QSE and Resource Entity shall submit an affidavit to ERCOT stating this arrangement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, QSEs that submit Power Purchase or Tolling Agreements (PPAs) do not have the option of allowing Resource Entities to file verifiable costs.
(2)	Make-Whole Payments for a Resource are based on the Startup Offers and Minimum-Energy Offers for the Resource, limited by caps.  Until ERCOT approves verifiable unit-specific costs for that Resource, the caps are the Resource Category Startup Generic Cap and the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap.  When ERCOT approves verifiable unit-specific costs for that Resource the caps are those verifiable unit-specific costs.  A QSE or Resource Entity may file verifiable unit-specific costs for a Resource at any time, but it must file those costs no later than 30 days after five Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) events for that Resource in a calendar year.  A RUC event begins when a Resource receives a RUC instruction to come or stay On-Line and ends the later of when the Resource shuts down or the end of the Operating Day.  The most recent ERCOT-approved verifiable costs must be used going forward. 
(3)	These unit-specific verifiable costs may include and are limited to the following average incremental costs:
(a)	Allocation of maintenance requirements based on number of starts between maintenance events using, at the option of the QSE or Resource Entity, either:
(i)	Manufacturer-recommended maintenance schedule; 
(ii)	Historical data for the unit and actual maintenance practices; or
(iii)	Another method approved in advance by ERCOT in writing;
(b)	Startup fuel calculations based on recorded actual measured flows when the data is available or based on averages of historical flows for similar starts (for example, hot, cold, intermediate) when actual data is not available.  Startup fuel will include filing separately the startup fuel required to reach breaker close and fuel after breaker close to Low Sustained Limit (LSL).  Any fuel required to shutdown a Resource will be submitted as the fuel from breaker open to shutdown;
(c)	Operation costs;
(d)	Chemical costs;
(e)	Water costs; and
(f)	Emission credits.
(4)	Standard Operations and Maintenance (O&M) costs pursuant to paragraph (6) below may be used in lieu of the incremental O&M costs set forth in items (3)(a), (c), (d) and (e) above. 
(5)	These unit-specific verifiable costs may not include:
(a)	Fixed costs, which are any cost that is incurred regardless of whether the unit is deployed or not; and
(b)	Costs for which the QSE or Resource Entity cannot provide sufficient documentation for ERCOT to verify the costs.
(6)	At their election, QSEs or Resource Entities may receive standard O&M costs for both startup and minimum energy.  This election may be made by submitting an election form to ERCOT.  If a QSE or Resource has received final approval for actual verifiable O&M costs under the verifiable cost process, it may not elect to receive standard O&M costs.  
(a)	Until December 31, 2011, standard O&M costs are defined as follows:
Resource Category
Start Year = 2009	Cold Startup ($/start)	Intermediate Startup ($/start)	Hot Startup ($/start)	Variable O&M ($/MWh)
Aeroderivative simple cycle commissioned after 1996	1,000.00	1,000.00	1,000.00	3.94
Reciprocating Engine	$58/MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$58/MW * the average of the  Seasonal net max sustainable ratings  	$58/MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	5.09
Simple cycle ≤ 90 MW	2,300.00	2,300.00	2,300.00	3.94
Simple cycle ≥ 90 MW	5,000.00	5,000.00	5,000.00	3.94
Combined cycle:  for each  Combined-Cycle Configuration, the Startup Cost for that configuration is the sum of the Startup Costs for each unit within that configuration as follows:				3.19
Combustion turbine < 90 MW	2,300.00	2,300.00	2,300.00	
Combustion turbine ≥ 90 MW	5,000.00	5,000.00	5,000.00	
Steam turbine	3,000.00	2,250.00	1,250.00	
Gas-steam non-reheat boiler	2,310.00	1,732.50	866.25	7.08
Gas-steam reheat boiler	3,000.00	2,250.00	1,125.00	7.08
Gas-steam supercritical boiler	4,800.00	3,600.00	1,800.00	7.08
Nuclear, coal, lignite and hydro	7,200.00	5,400.00	2,700.00	5.02
Renewable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	5.50
(b)	For the period beginning January 1, 2012 and ending December 31, 2012, standard O&M costs shall be reduced by 10% from the levels specified in the table in paragraph (a) above as follows:
Resource Category	Cold Startup ($/start)	Intermediate Startup ($/start)	Hot Startup ($/start)	Variable O&M ($/MWh)
Start Year = 2009				
Aeroderivative simple cycle commissioned after 1996	900.00	900.00	900.00	3.55
Reciprocating Engine	$52.20/MW * the average of the  Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$52.20/MW * the average of the  Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$52.20/MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	4.58
Simple cycle ≤ 90 MW	2,070.00	2,070.00	2,070.00	3.55
Simple cycle ≥ 90 MW	4,500.00	4,500.00	4,500.00	3.55
Combined cycle:  for each  Combined-Cycle Configuration, the Startup Cost for that configuration is the sum of the Startup Costs for each unit within that configuration as follows:				2.87
Combustion turbine < 90 MW	2,070.00	2,070.00	2,070.00	
Combustion turbine ≥ 90 MW	4,500.00	4,500.00	4,500.00	
Steam turbine	2,700.00	2,025.00	1,125.00	
Gas-steam non-reheat boiler	2,079.00	1,559.25	779.63	6.37
Gas-steam reheat boiler	2,700.00	2,025.00	1,012.50	6.37
Gas-steam supercritical boiler	4,320.00	3,240.00	1,620.00	6.37
Nuclear, coal, lignite and hydro	6,480.00	4,860.00	2,430.00	4.52
Renewable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	4.95
(c)	Beginning January 1, 2013 and going forward, standard O&M costs shall be reduced by 20% from the levels specified in the table in paragraph (a) above as follows:
Resource Category	Cold Startup ($/start)	Intermediate Startup ($/start)	Hot Startup ($/start)	Variable O&M ($/MWh)
Start Year = 2009				
Aeroderivative simple cycle commissioned after 1996	800.00	800.00	800.00	3.15
Reciprocating Engine	$46.40/MW * the average of the  Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$46.40 /MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	$46.40 /MW * the average of the Seasonal net max sustainable ratings	4.07
Simple cycle ≤ 90 MW	1,840.00	1,840.00	1,840.00	3.15
Simple cycle ≥ 90 MW	4,000.00	4,000.00	4,000.00	3.15
Combined cycle:  for each  Combined-Cycle Configuration, the Startup Cost for that configuration is the sum of the Startup Costs for each unit within that configuration as follows:	 	 	 	2.55
Combustion turbine < 90 MW	1,840.00	1,840.00	1,840.00	 
Combustion turbine ≥ 90 MW	4,000.00	4,000.00	4,000.00	 
Steam turbine	2,400.00	1,800.00	1,000.00	 
Gas-steam non-reheat boiler	1,848.00	1,386.00	693.00	5.66
Gas-steam reheat boiler	2,400.00	1,800.00	900.00	5.66
Gas-steam supercritical boiler	3,840.00	2,880.00	1,440.00	5.66
Nuclear, coal, lignite and hydro	5,760.00	4,320.00	2,160.00	4.02
Renewable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	Not Applicable	4.40
(d)	If the QSE or Resource Entity chooses to utilize the standard O&M costs for O&M, standard O&M costs will be used by ERCOT going forward until either:
(i)	Verifiable variable O&M costs are filed; or 
(ii)	ERCOT notifies the QSE or Resource Entity to update its verifiable costs as set forth in either paragraph (9) or (10) below.  If a Resource is receiving standard O&M costs, it may reelect standard O&M costs when resubmitting verifiable costs.
(7)	When submitting verifiable costs for combined cycle Resources, the QSE or Resource Entity must elect standard O&M costs for all Combined-Cycle Configurations or verifiable costs for all Combined-Cycle Configurations within the combined cycle train.  
(8)	QSEs submitting PPAs as Resource-specific verifiable costs documentation are subject to the guidelines detailed below and in the Verifiable Cost Manual.
(a)	Only QSEs offering Three-Part Supply Offers for a specific Resource may submit a PPA as verifiable costs documentation.
(b)	A QSE submitting a PPA as verifiable costs documentation must represent 100% of the Resource’s capacity.  
(c)	Only PPAs:  
(i) 	Signed prior to July 16, 2008; and 
(ii)	Not between Affiliates, subsidiaries or partners will be accepted as verifiable cost documentation.
(d)	Verifiable costs for PPAs shall be capped at the level of the highest comparable Resource (referred to as the reference Resource) specific verifiable costs approved by ERCOT without a PPA.  The ERCOT approved verifiable costs for a PPA shall be equal to the lesser of:  
(i)	The cap as described in paragraph (d) above; and 
(ii)	The costs from the PPA.
(e)	ERCOT shall use the Resource actual fuel costs submitted by the QSE for startup and operation at minimum-energy level (LSL), and shall use the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Costs as the cap for the O&M portion of the Startup Costs until ERCOT receives and approves comparable Resource specific verifiable costs.  
(f)	PPAs will no longer be accepted as verifiable cost documentation after the primary term of the contract expires. 
(g)	ERCOT shall produce a report each April that provides the percentage of RUC Make-Whole Payments for Resources with PPAs during the 12 months of the previous calendar year.  If there are no Make-Whole Payments for Resources with PPAs, ERCOT shall not produce the annual report.  The report shall be based on the final Settlements and include the total number of Resources that used a PPA for their most recent verifiable cost submission that was approved by ERCOT.  ERCOT shall present the results of this study to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee.
(h)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5.6.1, QSEs representing PPAs may, at any time, submit data from a Resource as verifiable costs documentation and such documentation will be accepted for consideration by ERCOT.  A QSE submitting verifiable costs documentation pursuant to this paragraph shall not be required to submit a PPA to ERCOT for consideration for verifiable cost recovery.
(9)	ERCOT shall notify a QSE to update verifiable cost data of a Resource when the Resource has received more than 50 RUC instructions meeting the criteria in Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility, in a year, but ERCOT may not request an update more frequently than annually. 
(10)	ERCOT shall notify a QSE to update verifiable cost data of a Resource if at least five years have passed since ERCOT previously approved verifiable cost data for that Resource. 
(11)	Within 30 days after receiving an update Notice from ERCOT under either paragraph (9) or (10) above, a QSE or Resource Entity must submit verifiable cost data for the Resource.  Despite the provisions in paragraph (2) above, if the QSE or Resource Entity does not submit verifiable cost data within 30 days after receiving an update Notice, then ERCOT shall determine payment using the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap, Resource Category Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Cap, and a zeroed value for variable O&M cost as described in Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap, in accordance with the schedule established in this section until updated verifiable costs are approved.  If the 30-day deadline has been reached before the start of the tenth day before the end of the month, the Resource’s verifiable costs will revert back to generic costs beginning on the first day of the following month.  If the 30-day deadline falls within the last ten days of the month, the Resource’s verifiable costs will revert back to generic costs on the first day of the second month following the deadline month.
(12) 	Notwithstanding the foregoing, QSEs and Resource Entities shall not submit verifiable costs for Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).
5.6.1.1	Verifiable Startup Costs
(1)	The unit-specific verifiable costs for starting a Resource for each cold, intermediate, and hot start condition, as determined using the data submitted under Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, and the Resource Parameters for the Resource are: 
(a) 	Actual fuel consumption rate per start (MMBtu/start) multiplied by a resource fuel price plus consideration of a fuel adder that compensates for the transportation and purchasing of spot fuel as described in the Verifiable Cost Manual; and
(b) 	Unit-specific verifiable or standard O&M expenses.
5.6.1.2	Verifiable Minimum-Energy Costs 
(1)	The unit-specific verifiable minimum-energy costs for a Resource are: 
(a)	Actual fuel cost to operate the unit at its LSL including a fuel adder that compensates for the transportation and purchasing of spot fuel as described in the Verifiable Cost Manual; plus
(b)	Verifiable or standard variable O&M expenses.
(2)	The QSE must submit the Resource’s cost information by Season if the Resource’s costs vary by Season.  For gas-fired units, the actual fuel costs must be calculated using the actual Seasonal heat rate (which must be supplied to ERCOT with Seasonal heat-rate test data) multiplied by the fuel price plus consideration of a fuel adder that compensates for the transportation and purchasing of spot fuel as described in the Verifiable Cost Manual.  For coal- and lignite-fired units, the actual fuel costs must be calculated using the actual Seasonal heat rate multiplied by a deemed fuel price of $1.50 per MMBtu.  For fuel oil-fired operations, the number of gallons burned must be multiplied by the FOP.
5.6.2	RUC Startup Cost Eligibility
(1)	For purposes of this Section 5.6.2, all contiguous RUC-Committed Hours are considered as one RUC instruction.  For each Resource, only one Startup Cost is eligible per block of contiguous RUC-Committed Hours.
(2)	For a Resource’s Startup Costs in the Operating Day, per RUC instruction, to be included in the calculation of the RUC guarantee for that Operating Day, all the criteria below must be met: 
(a)	According to the Current Operating Plan (COP) and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process that committed the Resource, the Resource must not be QSE-committed in the Settlement Interval immediately before the designated start hour or after the last hour of the RUC instruction;
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(a)	According to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process that committed the Resource, the Resource must not be QSE-committed in the Settlement Interval immediately before the designated start hour or after the last hour of the RUC instruction;
(b)	A later RUC instruction or QSE commitment must not connect the designated start hour or last hour of the RUC instruction to a block of QSE-committed Intervals that was QSE-committed before the RUC instruction was given, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process that committed the Resource;
[NPRR1009:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	A later RUC instruction or QSE commitment must not connect the designated start hour or last hour of the RUC instruction to a block of QSE-committed Intervals that was QSE-committed before the RUC instruction was given, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process that committed the Resource;
(c)	The generation breakers must have been open, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of Off-Line, for at least five minutes during the six hours preceding the first RUC-Committed Hour; and
(d)	The generation breakers must have been closed, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of On-Line, for at least one minute during the RUC commitment period or after the determined five-minute open breaker, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of Off-Line, in the six hours preceding the first RUC-Committed Hour.
(3)	Notwithstanding paragraphs (2)(c) and (2)(d) above, the QSE of a RUC-committed Resource may submit a Settlement dispute for a Resource’s Startup Costs in the Operating Day, per RUC instruction, to be included in the calculation of the RUC guarantee for that Operating Day if the startup time for the RUC-committed Resource is greater than six hours.  The dispute is subject to verification and approval by ERCOT based on the criteria below:
(a)	The generation breakers must have been open, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of Off-Line, for at least five minutes between the time the QSE is notified of the RUC instruction and the first RUC-Committed Hour;
(b)	The generation breakers must have been closed, as indicated by a telemetered Resource Status of On-Line, for at least one minute during the RUC commitment period or after the five-minute open breaker determined in item (a) above;
(c)	The breaker open-close sequence from items (a) and (b) above does not make the Resource eligible for Startup Cost compensation in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or for any other contiguous block of RUC-Committed Hours; and
(d)	The startup time used to process the dispute will be the startup time considered by the ERCOT Operator at the time the RUC instruction was issued.
(4)	For purposes of this Section 5.6.2, the telemetered Resource Status of OFFQS shall be considered as Off-Line.
(5)	A Resource that has a Three-Part Supply Offer cleared in the DAM and subsequently receives a RUC commitment for the Operating Hour for which it was awarded will be settled in accordance with Section 4.6.2.3, Day-Ahead Make-Whole Settlements.
5.6.3	Forced Outage of a RUC-Committed Resource
(1)	The calculation of a Make-Whole Payment for a RUC-committed Resource that is eligible to receive startup costs under Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility, and that experiences a Forced Outage after unit synchronization is governed by Section 5.6.2.
(2)	If a RUC-committed Resource, which Resource is eligible to include startup costs in its RUC guarantee under Section 5.6.2 without considering the criteria in item (2)(d) of Section 5.6.2, experiences startup failure that creates a Forced Outage before breaker close, ERCOT shall include the Resource’s submitted and approved verifiable actual costs in the Resource’s RUC guarantee, limited to the lesser of: 
(a)	Costs that qualify as normal startup expenses, including fuel and operation and maintenance expenses, incurred before the event that caused the Forced Outage; or
(b)	Resource’s Startup Offer in the RUC. 
(3)	The process for determining the verifiable actual costs for a startup attempt under item (2) above is described in the Verifiable Cost Manual. 
(4)	The verifiable actual costs for a startup attempt under item (2) above shall only be included in the Resource’s RUC guarantee upon QSE notification of the startup attempt under item (2) and approval of the verifiable actual costs under item (3) above.
5.6.4	Cancellation of a RUC Commitment
(1)	The calculation of payment for a RUC-committed Resource that is issued a RUC Cancellation instruction for the RUC commitment from ERCOT prior to breaker close shall be paid through the RUC Decommitment Payment as described in Section 5.7.3, Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource. 
(2)	A RUC-committed Resource that receives a RUC Cancellation instruction prior to breaker close may submit through the dispute process all incremental expenses associated with the RUC Cancellation of the RUC-committed Resource.  These costs include all costs that qualify as normal Startup Costs, O&M expenses and associated fuel expenses incurred for any attempted start.
(3)	The process for determining the verifiable actual costs for a RUC cancellation is described in the Verifiable Cost Manual.
5.6.5	Settlement for Canceled or Delayed Outages for Outage Schedule Adjustments (OSAs)
5.6.5.1	Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs
(1) 	If ERCOT issues an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA) pursuant to Section 3.1.4.6, Outage Coordination of Potential Transmission Emergency Conditions, or Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities, ERCOT shall pay the QSE representing the Resource a Make-Whole Payment as calculated in Section 5.6.5.2, RUC Make-Whole Payment and RUC Clawback Charge for Resources Receiving OSAs, if the QSE has:
(a)	Submitted a Settlement and billing dispute consistent with the dispute process described in Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process; and 
(b)	Submitted the following within 60 days of the issuance of a Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Statement for an Operating Day on which one or more OSAs was in effect for the Resource: 
(i)	An attestation signed by an officer or executive with authority to bind the QSE stating that the information contained in the submission is accurate;
(ii)	The dollar amount and calculation of the net financial loss, if applicable, by Settlement Interval for:
(A)	Actual and indirect costs incurred due to delaying or canceling and rescheduling the Outage.  Such costs include, but are not limited to: 
(1)	Additional staff or contractor time;
(2)	Costs associated with re-planning the Outage;
(3)	Costs of equipment rental (including but not limited to cranes, manlifts, welding machines, etc.);
(4)	Costs of facility rentals and other incidental incremental costs incurred by the Resource, its QSE, or its fuel supplier (e.g. mine-related expenses) created by the cancellation or delay of the Outage; and
(5)	Indirect costs necessary for moving any additional Outages due to the OSA.
(B)	Costs covered by paragraph (A) above do not include:
(1)	The cost of materials due to be installed during the Outage.  Such equipment will presumably be installed at a later date in a rescheduled or delayed Outage; and 
(2) 	All loss amounts associated with the Outage Resource as a result of any financial transaction, including selling or repurchasing a hedge (whether the hedge is for energy, Ancillary Services, or fuel); and
(iii)	Sufficient documentation to support the QSE’s calculation of all submitted costs.
5.6.5.2	RUC Make-Whole Payment and RUC Clawback Charge for Resources Receiving OSAs
(1)	To compensate QSEs representing Resources that submitted a timely Settlement and billing dispute, ERCOT shall calculate a RUC Guarantee for an Operating Day for the OSA Period to be used in the RUC Settlements process and allocated to each instructed Operating Hour as follows:
(a)	For a Resource with RUC instructions issued for hours during the OSA Period, the RUC Guarantee calculated for the RUC-Committed Hours shall include the following: 	
(i)	Eligible Startup costs per Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility;
(ii)	Minimum-energy costs;
(iii)	10% of both Startup costs and minimum-energy costs; and
(iv)	Approved net financial loss as defined in Section 5.6.5.1, Make-Whole Payment for Canceled or Delayed Outages for OSAs.
(b)	For a Resource without RUC Instructions issued for hours during the OSA Period, ERCOT shall create RUC instructions for all hours of the OSA Period for Settlement purposes only.  The created RUC instructions will be assigned to the first RUC process of each Operating Day.  The RUC Guarantee shall include only the following:
(i)	Approved net financial loss as defined in Section 5.6.5.1.
(c)	For a Resource that rescheduled an Outage within 120 days of the end of the OSA Period under paragraph (4) of Section 3.1.6.9, Withdrawal of Approval and Rescheduling of Approved Planned Outages of Resource Facilities, the RUC Guarantee determined in paragraphs (a) and (b) above must include an OSA Make-Whole Cost (OSAMW), calculated for the same corresponding OSA Period hours, when the Outage is rescheduled due to the OSA, starting with the first day of the rescheduled Outage period.  The OSAMW calculated for the rescheduled Outage hours shall be allocated to the corresponding RUC instructed hours, in paragraphs (a) or (b) above, on a day-by-day basis.  The OSAMW shall be calculated as follows:
OSAMW q, r, d   =  (Max (0, (RTSPP – MOC q, r, h)) * HSL q, r, h * (¼))
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
OSAMW q, r, d   	$	OSA Make-Whole Cost—The OSA Make-Whole cost for Resource r represented by QSE q during the eligible rescheduled Outage Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources receive an OSA, the Make-Whole cost is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for the OSA Period.
RTSPP	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Settlement Point for the 15-minute Settlement Interval of an eligible rescheduled Outage Hour.
MOC q, r, h	$/MWh	Mitigated Offer Cap per Resource—The MOC for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the eligible rescheduled Outage hour h at the High Sustained Limit (HSL) as submitted in the COP. Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
HSL q, r, i	MW	High Sustained Limit—The HSL of a Generation Resource r represented by QSE q as submitted in the COP, for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a combined cycle Resource, r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A Generation Resource.
d	none	The Operating Day.
h	none	The Operating Hour. 
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour.
(2) 	Notwithstanding the clawback provisions described in Section 5.7.2, RUC Clawback Charge, the clawback percentage shall be set at 100%.
5.6.5.3	Timeline for Calculating RUC Clawback Charges for Resources Receiving OSAs
(1)	Within ten Business Days after the issuance of the RTM True-Up Statement, ERCOT will issue a Miscellaneous Invoice to charge the QSE representing the Resource that has received an OSA the excess revenues not clawed back in RUC Settlements.
(2)	All clawed back revenues will be paid to QSEs based on a 15-minute Load-Ratio Share basis.
5.7	Settlement for RUC Process
5.7.1	RUC Make-Whole Payment
(1)	To make up the difference when the revenues that a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-committed Resource receives are less than its costs as described in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT shall calculate a RUC Make-Whole Payment for that Operating Day for that Resource (whether committed by Day-Ahead RUC (DRUC) or Hourly RUC (HRUC)).
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	To make up the difference when the revenues that a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-committed Resource receives are less than its costs as described in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT shall calculate a RUC Make-Whole Payment for that Operating Day for that Resource (whether committed by Day-Ahead RUC (DRUC) or Hourly RUC (HRUC)).  ERCOT shall not calculate or pay a RUC Make-Whole Payment for an Energy Storage Resource (ESR).
(2)	ERCOT shall pay to the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) for the Resource a Make-Whole Payment if the RUC Guarantee calculated in Section 5.7.1.1, RUC Guarantee, is greater than the sum of:
(a)	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue calculated in Section 5.7.1.2, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue;
(b)	Revenue less cost above Low Sustained Limited (LSL) during RUC-Committed Hours calculated in Section 5.7.1.3, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours; and 
(c)	Revenue less cost during QSE Clawback Intervals calculated in Section 5.7.1.4, Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals. 
(3)	The RUC Make-Whole Payment to the QSE for each RUC-committed Resource, including Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units, for each RUC-Committed Hour in an Operating Day is calculated as follows:
RUCMWAMTq,r,h	=	(-1) * Max (0, RUCGq,r,d – RUCMEREVq,r,d – RUCEXRRq,r,d – RUCEXRQCq,r,d) / RUCHRq,r,d
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCMWAMTq,r,h	$	RUC Make-Whole Payment—The RUC Make-Whole Payment to the QSE for Resource r, for each RUC-Committed Hour of the Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCGq,r,d	$	RUC Guarantee—The sum of eligible Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for Resource r during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day.  See Section 5.7.1.1.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, guaranteed costs are calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCMEREVq,r,d	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue—The sum of the energy revenues for Resource r’s generation up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day.  See Section 5.7.1.2.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, minimum-energy revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRRq,r,d	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day.  See Section 5.7.1.3.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRQCq,r,d	$	Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r less the cost during all QSE Clawback Intervals, for the Operating Day.  See Section 5.7.1.4.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost during QSE Clawback Intervals is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources earning revenue in QSE Clawback Intervals.
RUCHRq,r,d	None	RUC Hour—The total number of RUC-Committed Hours, for Resource r for the Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the total number of RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	None	A QSE.
r	None	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	None	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
h	None	An hour in the RUC-commitment period.
5.7.1.1	RUC Guarantee
(1)	The allowable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs of a Resource committed by RUC is the RUC Guarantee.  The RUC Guarantee minimum-energy costs are prorated according to the actual generation when the Resource’s average output during a 15-minute Settlement Interval is below the corresponding LSL.
(2)	The SUPR, MEPR and LSL used to calculate the RUC Guarantee for a Combined Cycle Train are the SUPR, MEPR and LSL that correspond to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within the Combined Cycle Train, that is RUC-committed for the hour.  If the RUC-Committed Interval is a RUC for Additional Capacity (RUCAC)-Interval, then the SUPR, MEPR, and LSL that corresponds to the QSE-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource is also used to calculate RUC Guarantee for a Combined Cycle Train.
(3)	For an Aggregate Generation Resource (AGR), the Startup Cost shall be scaled according to the maximum number of its generators online during a contiguous block of RUC-committed intervals, as indicated by telemetry, compared to the total number of generators registered to the AGR and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.
(4)	The RUC Guarantee is calculated for non-Combined Cycle Trains as follows: 
RUCG q, r, d	=	  (SUPR q, r, s * RUCSUFLAG q, r, s) +  (MEPR q, r, i * Min ((LSL q, r, i * (¼)), RTMG q, r, i))
(5)	The RUC Guarantee is calculated for Combined Cycle Trains as follows:
RUCG q, r, d	=	(SUPR q, r, s * RUCSUFLAG q, r, s) + 
		 (MAX (0, SUPR - SUPR)) +  (RUCGME q, r, i)
Where,
	If a Combined Cycle Train transitions to a RUC-committed configuration from a QSE-committed or other RUC-committed configuration between two contiguous hours, or to a RUC-committed configuration from a QSE-committed configuration within the same hour due to a RUCAC, the transition is calculated as follows:
MAX (0, SUPR afterCCGR – SUPR beforeCCGR)
	If a Combined Cycle Train transitions to a QSE-committed configuration from a RUC-committed configuration, the transition is calculated as follows:
MAX (0, SUPR beforeCCGR – SUPR afterCCGR)
If the interval i is a RUC-Committed Interval that is not a RUCAC, then:
RUCGME q, r, i	=  MEPR q, r, i * Min ((LSL q, r, i * (¼)), RTMG q, r, i)
If the interval i is a RUCAC of a previously QSE-Committed Interval, then:
RUCGME q, r, i	=  Max [0, MEPR q, afterCCGR, i * Min ((LSL q, afterCCGR, i * 
		(¼)), RTMG q, r, i) – MEPR q, beforeCCGR, i * (LSL q, beforeCCGR, i * (¼))]
(6)	If a validated Three-Part Supply Offer has been submitted for a Resource for the RUC, then the RUC Guarantee for that Resource is based on the minimum of the Startup Offer in that validated Three-Part Supply Offer and Startup Cap and the lesser of the Minimum-Energy Offer in that validated Three-Part Supply Offer and the Minimum-Energy Offer Cap.  If a validated Three-Part Supply Offer has not been submitted for a Resource for the RUC and ERCOT has not yet approved verifiable unit-specific costs for the Resource, then the RUC Guarantee for a Resource is based on the Resource Category Startup Generic Cap and the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap.  If a validated Three-Part Supply Offer has not been submitted for a Resource for the RUC and ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific costs for the Resource, then the RUC Guarantee for a Resource is based on the most recent ERCOT-approved verifiable unit-specific costs for that Resource.
For a Resource which is not an AGR, 
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer, 
	Then, 		SUPR q, r, s	=	Min (SUO q, r, s, SUCAP q, r, s)
			MEPR q, r, i	=	Min (MEO q, r, i, MECAP q, r, i)
	Otherwise, 	SUPR q, r, s 	= 	SUCAP q, r, s
			MEPR q, r, i 	= 	MECAP q, r, i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
	Then, 		SUCAP q, r, s	=	verifiable Startup Costs q, r, s
			MECAP q, r, i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
	Otherwise, 	SUCAP q, r, s 	= 	RCGSC s
			MECAP q, r, i	= 	RCGMEC i
For AGRs,
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer, 
Then, 		SUPR  q, r, s	=	Min (SUO q, r, s, SUCAP q, r, s)
			MEPR q, r, i	=	Min (MEO q, r, i, MECAP q, r, i)
	Otherwise, 	SUPR q, r, s 	= 	SUCAP q, r, s
			MEPR q, r, i 	= 	MECAP q, r, i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
	Then, 		SUCAP q, r, s	=	Max c (AGRRATIO q, p, r) * verifiable Startup Costs q, r, s
			MECAP q, r, i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
	Where, 		AGRRATIO q, p, r	 =	AGRMAXON q, p, r / AGRTOT q, p, r
	Otherwise, 	SUCAP q, r, s 	= 	Max c (AGRRATIO q, p, r) * RCGSC s
			MECAP q, r, i	= 	RCGMEC i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCG q, r, d	$	RUC Guarantee—The sum of eligible Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for Resource r represented by QSE q during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, guaranteed costs are calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCGME q, r, i	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Guarantee by interval—The guaranteed costs for Resource r represented by QSE q for minimum energy for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Guarantee is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.  During RUCAC-Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train, minimum energy cost is calculated as the difference between the minimum energy cost between the RUC-committed configuration and the QSE-committed configuration.
SUPR q, r, s	$/Start	Startup Price per start—The Settlement price for Resource r represented by QSE q for the start s.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
SUO q, r, s	$/Start	Startup Offer per start—Represents an offer for all costs incurred by Generation Resource r represented by QSE q in starting up and reaching the Resource’s LSL for the start s.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
SUCAP q, r, s	$/Start	Startup Cap—The amount used for AGR r or Resource r represented by QSE q for the start s as Startup Costs.  The cap is the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap (RCGSC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific Startup Costs for that Resource, in which case the startup cap is the scaled verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost for the AGR or the verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost for non-AGRs.  The verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost will be determined as described in Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, minus the average energy produced during the time period between breaker close and LSL multiplied by the heat rate proxy “H” multiplied by the appropriate Fuel Index Price (FIP), Fuel Oil Price (FOP) or solid fuel price, for AGR and non-AGR Resources.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
AGRRATIO q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Ratio per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—A value which represents the ratio of the maximum number of generators online during an hour, as indicated by telemetry, compared to the total number of generators registered to the AGR r represented by QSE q at the Settlement Point p and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.  The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
AGRMAXON q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Maximum Online per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—The maximum number of generators registered to the AGR r represented by QSE q at the Settlement Point p online during an hour, as indicated by telemetry.  The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
AGRTOT q, p, r	none	Aggregate Generation Resource Total per QSE per Settlement Point per Aggregate Generation Resource—The total number of generators registered to the AGR r represented by QSE q at the Settlement Point p and used in the approved verifiable cost for the AGR.  The value is only applicable if the Resource is an AGR.
RCGSC s	$/Start	Resource Category Generic Startup Cost—The Resource Category Generic Startup Cost cap for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, for the Operating Day.
RUCSUFLAG q, r, s	none	RUC Startup Flag—The flag that indicates whether or not the start s for Resource r represented by QSE q is eligible for RUC Make-Whole Payment.  Its value is one if eligible; otherwise, zero.  See Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility, and Section 5.6.3, Forced Outage of RUC-Committed Resource, for more information on startup eligibility.  For a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r must be one of the registered Combined Cycle Generation Resources within the Combined Cycle Train.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the RUC Startup Flag is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
MEPR q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Price—The Settlement price for Resource r represented by QSE q for minimum energy for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MEO q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Offer—Represents an offer for the costs incurred by Resource r represented by QSE q in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MECAP q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Cap—The amount used for Resource r represented by QSE q for the Settlement Interval i for minimum-energy costs.  The minimum cost is the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap (RCGMEC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific minimum energy costs for that Resource, in which case the Minimum-Energy Cap is the verifiable unit-specific minimum energy cost.  See Section 5.6.1 for more information on verifiable costs.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGMEC i	$/MWh	Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost—The Resource Category Generic Minimum Energy Cost cap for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, for the Operating Day.
RTMG q, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation—The metered generation of Resource r represented by QSE q for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
LSL q, r, i	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the Current Operating Plan (COP).  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUC-commitment.
s	none	A start that is eligible to have its costs included in the RUC Guarantee.
t	none	A transition that is eligible to have its costs included in the RUC Guarantee.
c	none	A contiguous block of RUC–Committed Hours.
afterCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource to which a Combined Cycle Train transitions.
beforeCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource from which a Combined Cycle Train transitions.
5.7.1.2	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue
(1)	The energy revenue for a Resource’s generation up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours of the Operating Day is RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue.
(2)	The LSL used to calculate RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue for a Combined Cycle Train is the LSL that corresponds to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within the Combined Cycle Train, that is RUC-committed for the hour.  If the interval is a RUCAC-Interval, then the LSL that corresponds to the QSE-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resource is also used to calculate RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue for a Combined Cycle Train.
(3)	For each RUC-committed Resource, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated as follows:
RUCMEREVq,r,d	=	 (RUCMEREV96 q, r, i)
Where,
If the interval i is a RUC-Committed Interval that is not a RUCAC-Interval, then:
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i  = RTSPP p, i * Min (RTMG q, r, i, (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))
If the interval i is a RUCAC of a previously QSE-Committed Interval, then:
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i  =  RTSPP p, i * Max [0, Min (RTMG q, r, i, (LSL q, afterCCGR, i * (¼))) -  LSL q, beforeCCGR, i * (¼)]
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCMEREV q, r, d	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue—The sum of the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue by interval—The energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.  During RUCAC-Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train, the minimum energy revenue is calculated as the difference between the minimum energy revenue of the RUC-committed configuration and the QSE-committed configuration.
RTSPP p, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Resource Node Settlement Point p for the Settlement Interval i.
RTMG q, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation—The metered generation of Resource r represented by QSE q for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
LSL q, r, i	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the COP.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUC-commitment.
afterCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is RUC-committed.
beforeCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was QSE-committed.

5.7.1.3	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours
(1)	The total revenue for a Resource operating above its LSL less the cost based on the Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap (as described in Section 4.4.9.3.3, Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps) during all RUC-Committed Hours of the Operating Day is Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours.  
(2)	The LSL used to calculate Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours for a Combined Cycle Train is the LSL that corresponds to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within the Combined Cycle Train, that is RUC-committed for the hour. 
(3)	For each RUC-committed Resource, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours is calculated as follows:
RUCEXRR q, r, d   =   Max {0,  [RUCEXRR96 q, r, i]}
Where,
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i  =	RTSPP p, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼))) 
			+ (-1) * (VSSVARAMT q, r, i + VSSEAMT q, r, i)
			+ (-1) * EMREAMT q, r, i 
			– RTEOCOST q, r, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))]}
[NPRR1009, NPRR1014, and NPRR1140:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1140:]
(3)	For each RUC-committed Resource, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours is calculated as follows:

If RUCFCA exists:

RUCEXRR q, r, d   =    [RUCEXRR96 q, r, i]
Otherwise:
RUCEXRR q, r, d   =   Max {0,  [RUCEXRR96 q, r, i]}
Where,
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i  =	RTSPP p, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))                   + RTASREV q, r, i
		+ (-1) * (VSSVARAMT q, r, i + VSSEAMT q, r, i)
		+ (-1) * EMREAMT q, r, i 
		– (RTEOCOST q, r, i + RUCFCA q, r, i) * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))
Where, 
RTASREV q, r, i = RTRUREV q, r, i + RTRDREV q, r, i + RTRRREV q, r, i + RTECRREV q, r, i + RTNSREV q, r, i
And, 
RUCFCA q, r, i = Max(0, Volume-weighted average actual fuel price q, r, i * Average heat rate – RTEOCOST q, r, i)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCEXRR q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours by interval—The total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RTSPP p, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Resource’s Resource Node Settlement Point p for the Settlement Interval i.
RTEOCOST q, r, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Energy Offer Curve Cost CapThe Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the Resource’s generation above the LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  See Section 4.4.9.3.3.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTMG q, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation—The metered generation of Resource r represented by QSE q for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1140:  Insert the variable “RUCFCA q, r, i” below upon system implementation:]
RUCFCA q, r, i	$/MWh	Reliability Unit Commitment Fuel Cost Adder—For a QSE that has been granted a fuel dispute per Section 9.14.7, Disputes for RUC Make-Whole Payment for Fuel Costs, the fuel cost adder is calculated as the volume-weighted average actual fuel price times the output-level average heat rate for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the Resource’s generation above LSL, for the Settlement Interval i, minus the RTEOCOST.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUCFCA is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-Committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources. 
The average heat rate for the Resource is the Average Heat Rate at the output level at Settlement Interval i, resulting from the input-output coefficients submitted with verifiable costs, if available, otherwise the heat rate value defined in Section 4.4.9.3.3.  
The volume-weighted average actual fuel price must be proven by the QSE by submitting a dispute per Section 9.14.7.  


LSL q, r, i	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the COP.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Insert applicable variables below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
RTASREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Ancillary Service Revenue — The total Real-Time Ancillary Service revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRUREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Reg-Up Revenue — The Real-Time Reg-Up revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Payment or Charge.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRDREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Reg-Down Revenue — The Real-Time Reg-Down revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRRREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Responsive Reserve Revenue — The Real-Time RRS revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTNSREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Non-Spin Revenue — The Real-Time Non-Spin revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTECRREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Revenue — The Real-Time ECRS revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.


VSSVARAMT q, r, i	$	Voltage Support Service VAr Amount by interval—The payment to the QSE q for the Voltage Support Service (VSS) provided by Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Voltage Support Service VAr Amount—The payment to the QSE q for the Voltage Support Service (VSS) provided by Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.

VSSEAMT q, r, i	$	Voltage Support Service Energy Amount by interval—The lost opportunity payment to the QSE q for ERCOT-directed VSS from the Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Voltage Support Service Energy Amount—The lost opportunity payment to the QSE q for ERCOT-directed VSS from the Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.

EMREAMT q, r, i	$	Emergency Energy Amount by interval—The payment to the QSE q as additional compensation for the additional energy produced by the Generation Resource r in Real-Time during the Emergency Condition, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Power Increase Directed by ERCOT.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Emergency Energy Amount—The payment to the QSE q as additional compensation for the additional energy or Ancillary Services produced or consumed by the Resource r in Real-Time during the Emergency Condition, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Operations Settlement.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.

q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUC instruction.
5.7.1.4	Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals
(1)	The total revenue for a Resource less the cost based on the Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap as described in Section 4.4.9.3.3, Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps, during all QSE Clawback Intervals of the Operating Day is Revenue Less Cost During QSE-Clawback Intervals. 
(2)	The MEPR and LSL used to calculate Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train is the MEPR and LSL that corresponds to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within a Combined Cycle Train, that operates in Real-Time for the QSE Clawback Interval.
(3)	For each QSE Clawback Interval, Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals is calculated as follows:
RUCEXRQC q, r, d		=  Max {0,  [(RTSPP p, i * RTMG q, r, i)
+ (-1) * (VSSVARAMT q, r, i + VSSEAMT q, r, i)
			+ (-1) * EMREAMT q, r, i
			– [MEPR q, r, i * Min (RTMG q, r, i, (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))] 
			– [RTEOCOST q, r, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))]]}  
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer for the Resource, 
	Then, 		MEPR q, r, i	=	Min (MEO q, r, i, MECAP q, r, i)
	Otherwise, 	MEPR q, r, i 	= 	MECAP q, r, i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
	Then,		MECAP q, r, i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
	Otherwise, 	MECAP q, r, i	= 	RCGMEC i
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the formula “RUCEXRQC q, r, d” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
RUCEXRQC q, r, d		=  Max {0,  [(RTSPP p, i * RTMG q, r, i)
			+ RTASREVq, r, i
			+ (-1) * (VSSVARAMT q, r, i + VSSEAMT q, r, i)
		   + (-1) * EMREAMT q, r, i
		   – [MEPR q, r, i * Min (RTMG q, r, i, (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))] 
		   – [RTEOCOST q, r, i * Max (0, RTMG q, r, i – (LSL q, r, i * (¼)))]]}  
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer for the Resource, 
	Then, 		MEPR q, r, i	=	Min (MEO q, r, i, MECAP q, r, i)
	Otherwise, 	MEPR q, r, i 	= 	MECAP q, r, i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
	Then,		MECAP q, r, i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costs q, r, i
	Otherwise, 	MECAP q, r, i	= 	RCGMEC i
Where, 
RTASREV q, r, i = RTRUREV q, r, i + RTRDREV q, r, i + RTRRREV q, r, i + RTECRREV q, r, i  +  RTNSREV q, r, i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCEXRQC q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost During QSE-Clawback Intervals—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r less the cost during all QSE-Clawback Intervals for the Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost During QSE-Clawback Intervals is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources earning revenue in QSE-Clawback Intervals.
RTSPP p, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Resource’s Settlement Point for the Settlement Interval i.
MEPR q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Price—The Settlement price for Resource r for minimum energy for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MEO q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Offer—Represents an offer for the costs incurred by Resource r in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MECAP q, r, i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Cap—The amount used for Resource r for minimum-energy costs.  The minimum cost is the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap (RCGMEC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific minimum energy costs for that Resource, in which case the Minimum-Energy Cap is the verifiable unit-specific minimum energy cost.  See Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, for more information on verifiable costs.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGMEC i	$/MWh	Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost—The Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost cap for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, for the Operating Day.
RTEOCOST q, r, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Energy Offer Curve Cost CapThe Energy Offer Curve Cost Cap for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the Resource’s generation above the LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  See Section 4.4.9.3.3.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.

RTMG q, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation—The Resource r’s metered generation for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
LSL q, r, i	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the COP.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Insert applicable portions of the variables below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
RTASREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Ancillary Service Revenue — The total Real-Time Ancillary Service revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRUREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Reg-Up Revenue — The Real-Time Reg-Up revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Payment or Charge.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRDREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Reg-Down Revenue — The Real-Time Reg-Down revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTRRREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Responsive Reserve Revenue — The Real-Time RRS revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTNSREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time Non-Spin Revenue — The Real-Time Non-Spin revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.
RTECRREV q, r, i	$	Real-Time ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Revenue — The Real-Time ECRS revenue for QSE q calculated for Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.7.5.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is the Combined Cycle Train.


VSSVARAMT q, r, i	$	Voltage Support Service VAr Amount by interval—The payment to the QSE for the VSS provided by Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Voltage Support Service VAr Amount—The payment to the QSE for the VSS provided by Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.

VSSEAMT q, r, i	$	Voltage Support Service Energy Amount by interval—The lost opportunity payment to the QSE for ERCOT-directed VSS from the Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.  
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Voltage Support Service Energy Amount—The lost opportunity payment to the QSE for ERCOT-directed VSS from the Generation Resource r for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.7.1.  Payment for VSS is made to the Combined Cycle Train.  

EMREAMT q, r, i	$	Emergency Energy Amount by interval—The payment to the QSE as additional compensation for the additional energy produced by the Generation Resource r in Real-Time during the Emergency Condition, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Power Increase Directed by ERCOT.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1009 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
Emergency Energy Amount—The payment to the QSE as additional compensation for the additional energy or Ancillary Services produced or consumed by the Resource r in Real-Time during the Emergency Condition, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Operations Settlement.  Payment for emergency energy is made to the Combined Cycle Train.  
  
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that is identified as a QSE-Clawback Interval.
5.7.2	RUC Clawback Charge
(1)	A QSE for a Resource shall pay a RUC Clawback Charge for the Operating Day if the RUC Guarantee is less than the sum of:
(a)	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue calculated in Section 5.7.1.2, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue;
(b)	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours calculated in Section 5.7.1.3, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours; and 
(c)	Revenue Less Cost During QSE-Clawback Intervals calculated in Section 5.7.1.4, Revenue Less Cost During QSE Clawback Intervals. 
(2)	The amount of the RUC Clawback Charge is 100% of the difference calculated in paragraph (1) above.
[NPRR1172:  Delete paragraph (2) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(3)	The RUC Clawback Charge for a Resource, including RMR Units, for each Operating Day is allocated evenly over the RUC-Committed Hours for that Resource.  
[NPRR1014:  Insert paragraph (4) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(4)	Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) are not subject to RUC Clawback Charges. 
(4)	For each RUC-committed Resource, the RUC Clawback Charge for each RUC-Committed Hour of the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
If (RUCMEREV q, r, d + RUCEXRR q, r, d – RUCACREV q, r, d – RUCG q, r, d) > 0, 
Then,
RUCCBAMT q, r, h	=	[(RUCMEREV q, r, d + RUCEXRR q, r, d – RUCACREV q, r, d – RUCG q, r, d) * RUCCBFR q, r, d + RUCEXRQC q, r, d * RUCCBFC q, r, d] / RUCHR q, r, d 
Otherwise, 
RUCCBAMT q, r, h 	=	[Max (0, RUCMEREV q, r, d + RUCEXRR q, r, d + RUCEXRQC q, r, d –  RUCACREV q, r, d – RUCG q, r, d) * RUCCBFC q, r, d] / RUCHR q, r, d
Where, 
The RUCAC revenue is calculated for a Combined Cycle Train as follows:
RUCACREV q, r, d	=  Max{0,  RUCMEREV96 q, r, i + Max(0,  RUCEXRR96 q, r, i)}  
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCCBAMT q, r, h	$	RUC Clawback Charge––The RUC Clawback Charge to a QSE for Resource r represented by QSE q as described in this Section, for each RUC-Committed Hour h of the Operating Day for that Resource.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, a charge is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCG q, r, d	$	RUC Guarantee—The sum of eligible Startup Costs and Minimum-Energy Costs for Resource r represented by QSE q during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.1, RUC Guarantee.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, guaranteed costs are calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCMEREV q, r, d	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue—The sum of the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.2.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRR q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q above the LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.3.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRQC q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost from QSE-Clawback Intervals—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q less the cost during all QSE-Clawback Intervals for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.4.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost from QSE-Clawback Intervals is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources earning revenue in QSE Clawback Intervals.
RUCACREV q, r, d	$	Revenue from RUCAC Hours—The net positive sum for the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL and the total revenue for Resource r operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUCAC-Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are RUCAC, revenue from RUCAC Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources that were RUC-committed during the RUCAC-Hours.
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue by Interval—The energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.  During RUCAC-Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train, the minimum energy revenue is calculated as the difference between the minimum energy revenue of the RUC-committed configuration and the QSE-committed configuration.
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours by Interval—The total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCCBFR q, r, d	none	RUC Clawback Factor for RUC-Committed Hours—The Clawback Factor for Resource r represented by QSE q for RUC-Committed Hours, as specified in paragraph (2) above, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the RUC Clawback Factor for RUC-Committed Hours is determined for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCCBFC q, r, d	none	RUC Clawback Factor for QSE Clawback Intervals—The Clawback Factor for Resource r represented by QSE q for QSE Clawback Intervals, as specified in paragraph (2) above, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the RUC Clawback Factor for QSE Clawback Intervals is determined for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCHR q, r, d	none	RUC Hour—The total number of RUC-Committed Hours, for Resource r represented by QSE q for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the total number of RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
h	none	An hour in the RUC-commitment period.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUCAC instruction.

[NPRR1172:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	For each RUC-committed Resource, the RUC Clawback Charge for each RUC-Committed Hour of the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
RUCCBAMT q, r, h 	=	Max (0, RUCMEREV q, r, d + RUCEXRR q, r, d + RUCEXRQC q, r, d –  RUCACREV q, r, d – RUCG q, r, d) / RUCHR q, r, d
Where, 
The RUCAC revenue is calculated for a Combined Cycle Train as follows:
RUCACREV q, r, d	=  Max{0,   RUCMEREV96 q, r, i + Max(0,  RUCEXRR96 q, r, i)}  
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCCBAMT q, r, h	$	RUC Clawback Charge––The RUC Clawback Charge to a QSE for Resource r represented by QSE q as described in this Section, for each RUC-Committed Hour h of the Operating Day for that Resource.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, a charge is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCG q, r, d	$	RUC Guarantee—The sum of eligible Startup Costs and Minimum-Energy Costs for Resource r represented by QSE q during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.1, RUC Guarantee.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, guaranteed costs are calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCMEREV q, r, d	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue—The sum of the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.2.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRR q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q above the LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.3.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCEXRQC q, r, d	$	Revenue Less Cost from QSE-Clawback Intervals—The sum of the total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q less the cost during all QSE-Clawback Intervals for the Operating Day d.  See Section 5.7.1.4.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, Revenue Less Cost from QSE-Clawback Intervals is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources earning revenue in QSE Clawback Intervals.
RUCACREV q, r, d	$	Revenue from RUCAC Hours—The net positive sum for the energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL and the total revenue for Resource r operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUCAC-Hours, for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are RUCAC, revenue from RUCAC Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all Combined Cycle Generation Resources that were RUC-committed during the RUCAC-Hours.
RUCMEREV96 q, r, i	$	RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue by Interval—The energy revenues for generation of Resource r represented by QSE q up to LSL during all RUC-Committed Hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, RUC Minimum-Energy Revenue is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.  During RUCAC-Intervals for a Combined Cycle Train, the minimum energy revenue is calculated as the difference between the minimum energy revenue of the RUC-committed configuration and the QSE-committed configuration.
RUCEXRR96 q, r, i	$	Revenue Less Cost Above LSL During RUC-Committed Hours by Interval—The total revenue for Resource r represented by QSE q operating above its LSL less the cost during all RUC-Committed hours, for the Settlement Interval i.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, revenue less cost above LSL is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCHR q, r, d	none	RUC Hour—The total number of RUC-Committed Hours, for Resource r represented by QSE q for the Operating Day d.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, the total number of RUC-Committed Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
d	none	An Operating Day containing the RUC-commitment.
h	none	An hour in the RUC-commitment period.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour that includes a RUCAC instruction.

5.7.3	Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource 
(1)	If ERCOT decommits a QSE-committed Resource during the RUC process earlier than its scheduled shutdown within the Operating Day, then no compensation is due to the affected QSE from ERCOT. 
(2)	If ERCOT decommits a QSE committed Resource that is not scheduled to shutdown within the Operating Day, then ERCOT shall pay the affected QSE an amount as calculated below for the hours of decommitment.  The number of continuous decommitted hours used in the calculation are the hours beginning with the first decommitted hour until the earlier of: 
(a)	The hour ERCOT determines that the Resource may again be at LSL; and 
(b)	The end of the last hour of the Operating Day.  
(3)	If ERCOT decommits a QSE-committed Resource not scheduled to shutdown within the Operating Day, and the decommitment period spans more than one Operating Day, the RUC Decommitment Payment Amount shall be calculated and paid in the Operating Day in which the RUC decommitment originated.  The number of continuous decommitted hours used in the calculation are the hours beginning with the first decommitted hour until the end of the last hour of the Operating Day in which the RUC decommitment originated.
(4)	The payment for a RUC Cancellation instruction for a Resource is settled for each hour through an adjustment in the RUC Decommitment Payment Amount as shown in paragraph (8) below.
(5)	ERCOT shall produce a report each April that provides the percentage of the RUC Decommitment Payment Amounts that are a result of RUC cancellations during the 12 months of the previous calendar year.  The report shall be based on the Final Settlements.  ERCOT shall present the results of this study to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee.  If there are no RUC Decommitment Payment Amounts for a given calendar year, then ERCOT will not be required to produce the annual report. 
(6)	The SUPR, MEPR and LSL used to calculate payment when ERCOT decommits a QSE-committed Combined Cycle Train is the SUPR, MEPR and LSL that corresponds to the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, within the Combined Cycle Train, that is RUC-decommitted in the first hour of a contiguous decommitted period. 
(7)	If the SUPR used to calculate payment when ERCOT decommits a QSE-committed AGR is based upon approved verifiable cost for all of the generators associated with the AGR, ERCOT shall scale the startup payment according to the number of generators of the AGR that started following the decommitment.  ERCOT shall make the adjustment no later than on Final Settlement.
(8)	The payment for a RUC decommitment instruction for a Resource, including RMR Units, is calculated for each hour as follows:
[NPRR1014:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(8)	The payment for a RUC decommitment instruction for a Resource, including RMR Units and excluding ESRs, is calculated for each hour as follows:
RUCDCAMTq,r,h	=	(-1) * Max (0, (SUPRq,r,s -  (Max (0, MEPRq,r,i - RTSPPp,i) * (LSLq,r,i * (¼))))) / NCDCHRq,r,h  
Where:
If the QSE submitted a validated Three-Part Supply Offer for the Resource, 
Then, 		SUPRq,r,s	=	Min (SUOq,r,s, SUCAP q,r,s)
		MEPRq,r,i	=	Min (MEOq,r,i, MECAP q,r,i)
Otherwise, 	SUPRq,r,s 	= 	SUCAPq,r,s
		MEPRq,r,i 	= 	MECAPq,r,i
If ERCOT has approved verifiable Startup Costs and minimum-energy costs for the Resource,
Then, 		SUCAPq,r,s	=	verifiable Startup Costsq,r,s
		MECAPq,r,i	=	verifiable minimum-energy costsq,r,i
Otherwise, 	SUCAPq,r,s 	= 	RCGSCs
		MECAPq,r,i	= 	RCGMECi
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCDCAMTq,r,h	$	RUC Decommitment Payment Amount—The payment to the QSE for the Resource that was decommitted by ERCOT but that was not scheduled to shut down in the Operating Day, for each decommitted hour of the Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are decommitted by RUC, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-decommitted Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
SUPRq,r,s 	$/Start	Startup Price per start—The Settlement price for Resource r for the start s.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
SUOq,r,s	$/Start	Startup Offer per start—Represents an offer for all costs incurred by Generation Resource r in starting up and reaching the Resource’s LSL.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
SUCAPq,r,s	$/Start	Startup Cap—The amount used for Resource r as Startup Costs.  The cap is the Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap (RCGSC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific Startup Costs for that Resource, in which case the Startup Cap is the verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost.  The verifiable unit-specific Startup Cost will be determined as described in Section 5.6.1, Verifiable Costs, minus the average energy produced during the time period between breaker close and LSL multiplied by the heat rate proxy “H” multiplied by the appropriate FIP, FOP, or solid fuel price.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGSCs	$/Start	Resource Category Generic Startup Cost—The Resource Category Startup Offer Generic Cap cost for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3, Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps, for the Operating Day.
MEPRq,r,i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Price—The Settlement price for Resource r for minimum energy for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MEOq,r,i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Offer—Represents an offer for the costs incurred by Resource r in producing energy at the Resource’s LSL for the Settlement Interval i.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
MECAPq,r,i	$/MWh	Minimum-Energy Cap—The amount used for Resource r for minimum-energy costs.  The minimum cost is the Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap (RCGMEC) unless ERCOT has approved verifiable unit-specific minimum energy costs for that Resource, in which case the Minimum-Energy Cap is the verifiable unit-specific minimum energy cost.  See Section 5.6.1 for more information on verifiable costs.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RCGMECi	$/MWh	Resource Category Generic Minimum-Energy Cost—The Resource Category Minimum-Energy Generic Cap cost for the category of the Resource, according to Section 4.4.9.2.3.
LSLq,r,i 	MW	Low Sustained Limit—The LSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as submitted in the COP.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RTSPPp,i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Resource’s Settlement Point for the Settlement Interval i.
NCDCHRq,r,h	none	Number of Continuous Decommitted Hours—The number of continuous decommitment hours for Resource r within an Operating Day.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are decommitted by RUC, the Number of Continuous Decommitted Hours is calculated for the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-decommitted Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A  RUC-decommitted Generation Resource.
h	none	An hour in the RUC decommitment period.
p	none	A Resource Node Settlement Point.
s	none	A start.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval within the contiguous decommitted period.
5.7.4	RUC Make-Whole Charges 
(1)	All QSEs that were capacity-short in each RUC will be charged for that shortage, as described in Section 5.7.4.1, RUC Capacity-Short Charge.  If the revenues from the charges under Section 5.7.4.1 are not enough to cover all RUC Make-Whole Payments for a Settlement Interval, then the difference will be uplifted to all QSEs on a Load Ratio Share (LRS) basis, as described in Section 5.7.4.2, RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge.
(2)	On a monthly basis, within ten days after the Initial Settlement of the last day of the month has been completed, ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area the total RUC Make-Whole Charges and RUC Clawback Payment Amounts, by Settlement Interval, by QSE capacity-shortfall and by amount uplifted. 
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	On a monthly basis, within ten days after the Initial Settlement of the last day of the month has been completed, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the total RUC Make-Whole Charges and RUC Clawback Payment Amounts, by Settlement Interval, by QSE capacity-shortfall and by amount uplifted.
5.7.4.1	RUC Capacity-Short Charge
(1)	The dollar amount charged to each QSE, due to capacity shortfalls for a particular RUC, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, is the QSE’s shortfall ratio share multiplied by the total RUC Make-Whole Payments, including amounts for RMR Units, to all QSEs for that RUC, subject to a cap.  The cap on the charge to each QSE is two multiplied by the total RUC Make-Whole Payments, including amounts for RMR Units, for all QSEs multiplied by that QSE’s capacity shortfall for that RUC process divided by the total capacity of all RUC-committed Resources during that Settlement Interval for the RUC process.  That dollar amount charged to each QSE is calculated as follows:
RUCCSAMT ruc, i, q	=	(-1) * Max [(RUCSFRS ruc, i, q * RUCMWAMTRUCTOT ruc, h), 
(2 * RUCSF ruc, i, q * RUCMWAMTRUCTOT ruc, h / RUCCAPTOT ruc, h)] / 4
Where:
RUCMWAMTRUCTOT ruc, h 	=	  RUCMWAMT ruc, q, r, h
RUCCAPTOT ruc, h	    	 =	 (RUCHSL ruc, h, r – RUCHSL ruc, h, beforeCCGR)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCCSAMT ruc, i, q	$	RUC Capacity-Short Amount—The charge to a QSE q, due to capacity shortfall for a particular RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCMWAMTRUCTOT ruc, h	$	RUC Make-Whole Amount Total per RUC—The sum of RUC Make-Whole Payments for a particular RUC process ruc, including amounts for RMR Units, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCMWAMT ruc, q, r, h	$	RUC Make-Whole Payment—The RUC Make-Whole Payment to the QSE q for Resource r, for a particular RUC process ruc, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See Section 5.7.1, RUC Make-Whole Payment.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	none	RUC Shortfall Ratio Share—The ratio of the QSE q’s capacity shortfall to the sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls for a particular RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See Section 5.7.4.1.1, Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share.
RUCSF ruc, i, q	MW	RUC Shortfall—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall for a particular RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  See formula in Section 5.7.4.1.1.
RUCCAPTOT ruc, h	MW	RUC Capacity Total—The sum of the High Sustained Limits (HSLs) of all RUC-committed Resources for a particular RUC process ruc, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See formula in Section 5.7.4.1.1. 
RUCHSL ruc, q, r, h	MW	High Sustained Limit at RUC Snapshot—The HSL of Generation Resource r represented by QSE q for the hour h, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process ruc.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
ruc	none	The RUC process for which the RUC Capacity-Short Charge is calculated.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
r	none	A Generation Resource that is RUC-committed for the hour that includes the Settlement Interval i, as a result of a particular RUC process.
beforeCCGR	none	The Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was QSE-committed in a RUCAC-Interval.
5.7.4.1.1	Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share
(1)	In calculating the amount short for each QSE, the available capacity of an IRR when determining responsibility for the corresponding RUC charges shall be the lesser of the HSL value as reflected in the COP and the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP), as described in Section 4.2.2, Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential, for a Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR), or the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP), as described in Section 4.2.3, PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential, for a PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR), at the time of RUC execution.  For an IRR, the HASLSNAP variable used below shall be equal to the minimum of the WGRPP or PVGRPP described above and the HSL value as reflected in the QSE’s COP, at the time of the RUC execution.  
(2)	In calculating the amount short for each QSE, the QSE must be given a capacity credit for non-Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) that were given notice of decommitment within the two hours before the Operating Hour as a result of the RUC process by setting the HASLSNAP and HASLADJ variables used below equal to the HASLSNAP value for the Resource immediately before the decommitment instruction was given.  
(3)	In calculating the short amount for each QSE, if the High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) for a Resource was credited to the QSE during the RUC snapshot but the Resource experiences a Forced Outage within two hours before the start of the Settlement Interval, then the HASL for that Resource is also credited to the QSE in the HASLADJ.
(4)	In calculating the short amount for each QSE, if the DCIMPSNAP was credited to the QSE during the RUC snapshot but the entire Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) experiences a Forced Outage within two hours before the start of the Settlement Interval, then the DCIMPSNAP is also credited to the QSE in the DCIMPADJ.
(5)	For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, if more than one Combined Cycle Generation Resource is shown On-Line in its COP for the same Settlement hour, then the provisions of paragraph (6)(a) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, apply in the determination of the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource for that Settlement hour.
(6)	The capacity shortfall ratio share of a specific QSE for a particular RUC process is calculated, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, as follows:
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	=	RUCSF ruc, i, q / RUCSFTOT ruc, i
Where:
RUCSFTOT ruc, i	=	 RUCSF ruc, i, q
(7)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCSF ruc, i, q	=	Max (0, Max (RUCSFSNAP ruc, q, i, RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i) –  RUCCAPCREDIT q, i, z)
(8)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval, as measured at the snapshot, is:
RUCSFSNAP ruc ,q ,i	=	Max (0, (( RTAML q, p, i * 4) – RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i))
(9)	The amount of capacity that a QSE had according to the RUC snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i =	 HASLSNAP q, r, h + (RUCCPSNAP q, h – RUCCSSNAP q, h) + ( DAEP q, p, h – DAES q, p, h) + ( RTQQEPSNAP q, p, i –  RTQQESSNAP q, p, i) +    DCIMPSNAP q, p, i
(10)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval, as measured at Real-Time, but including capacity from IRRs as seen in the RUC snapshot, is:
RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i	=	Max (0, (( RTAML q, p, i) *4) – ( HASLSNAP ruc, q, r, h + RUCCAPADJ q, i))
(11)	The amount of capacity that a QSE had in Real-Time for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, excluding capacity from IRRs, is:
RUCCAPADJ q, i =	 HASLADJ q, r, h + (RUCCPADJ q, h – RUCCSADJ q, h) + ( DAEP q, p, h –  DAES q, p, h) + ( RTQQEPADJ q, p, i –  RTQQESADJ q, p, i) +   DCIMPADJ q, p, i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	none	RUC Shortfall Ratio Share—The ratio of the QSE q’s capacity shortfall to the sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSF ruc, i, q	MW	RUC Shortfall—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFTOT ruc, i	MW	RUC Shortfall Total—The sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for a RUC process ruc, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Shortfall at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall according to the snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Shortfall at Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s Adjustment Period capacity shortfall, including capacity from IRRs as seen in the snapshot for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCAPCREDIT q, i, z	MW	RUC Capacity Credit by QSE—The QSE q’s capacity credit resulting from capacity paid through the RUC Capacity-Short Amount for RUC process z for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTAML q, p, i	MWh	Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load—The QSE q’s Adjusted Metered Load (AML) at the Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Capacity Snapshot at time of RUC—The amount of the QSE q’s calculated capacity in the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  
HASLSNAP q, r, h	MW	High Ancillary Services Limit at Snapshot—The HASL of the Resource r represented by the QSE q, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
DCIMPADJ q, p, i	MW	DC Import per QSE per Settlement Point—The approved aggregated DC Tie Schedule submitted by QSE q as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p according to the Adjustment Period snapshot, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
DCIMPSNAP q, p, i	MW	DC Import per QSE per Settlement Point—The approved aggregated DC Tie Schedule submitted by QSE q as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p, according to the snapshot for the RUC process for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCPSNAP q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Purchase at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity purchase, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSSNAP q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Sale at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity sale, according to the COP and Trades Snapshot for the RUC process for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCAPADJ q, i	MW	RUC Capacity Snapshot during Adjustment Period—The amount of the QSE q’s calculated capacity in the RUC according to the COP and Trades Snapshot, excluding capacity for IRRs, at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
HASLADJ q, r, h	MW	High Ancillary Services Limit at Adjustment Period—The HASL of a non-IRR r represented by the QSE q, according to the Adjustment Period snapshot, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  
RUCCPADJ q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Purchase at Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s capacity purchase, according to the Adjustment Period COP and Trades Snapshot for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSADJ q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Sale at Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s capacity sale, according to the Adjustment Period COP and Trades Snapshot for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
DAEP q, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase—The QSE q’s energy purchased in the DAM at the Settlement Point p for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
DAES q, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale—The QSE q’s energy sold in the DAM at the Settlement Point p for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTQQEPSNAP q, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase by QSE by point—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the buyer at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the COP and Trades Snapshot.
RTQQESSNAP q, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale by QSE by point—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the seller at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the COP and Trades Snapshot.
RTQQEPADJ q, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase by QSE by point—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the buyer at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the last COP and Trades Snapshot at the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
RTQQESADJ q, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale by QSE by point—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the seller at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the last COP and Trades Snapshot at the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
r	none	A Generation Resource that is QSE-committed or planning to operate as a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) for the Settlement Interval as shown by the Resource Status of OFFQS in the COP and Trades Snapshot and/or Adjustment Period snapshot; or RUC-decommitted for the Settlement Interval (subject to paragraphs (1) and (2) above); or a Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) released by a non-ERCOT Control Area Operator (CAO) to operate in the ERCOT Control Area due to an ERCOT RUC instruction for an actual or anticipated EEA condition.  If the Settlement Interval is a RUCAC-Interval, r represents the Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was QSE-committed at the time the RUCAC was issued.
z	none	A previous RUC process for the Operating Day.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
ruc	none	The RUC process for which this RUC Shortfall Ratio Share is calculated.

[NPRR1009, NPRR1014, NPRR1029, NPRR1032, and NPRR1236:  Replace applicable portions of Section 5.7.4.1.1 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1009 and NPRR1236; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014, NPRR1029, or NPRR1032:]
5.7.4.1.1	Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share
(1)	In calculating the shortfall amount for each QSE, the Resource capacity (RCAPSNAP and RCAPADJ) shall be calculated for a Generation Resource that meets any of the following conditions: 
(a)	QSE-committed;  
(b)	Planning to operate as a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) for the Settlement Interval as shown by the COP Status of OFFQS in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC Process and/or Adjustment Period; or
(c)	A Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) that is released by a non-ERCOT Control Area Operator (CAO) to operate in the ERCOT Control Area due to an ERCOT RUC instruction for an actual or anticipated EEA condition and that is shown as On-Line in its COP; or 
(d)	If the Settlement Interval is a RUCAC-Interval, the Combined Cycle Generation Resource that was QSE-committed at the time the RUCAC was issued, excluding the condition for SWGRs as describe in paragraph (c) above.
(2)	In calculating the amount short for each QSE, the available capacity of an IRR when determining responsibility for the corresponding RUC charges shall be the lesser of the HSL value, as reflected in the COP, and the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP), as described in Section 4.2.2, Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential, for a Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR), or the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP), as described in Section 4.2.3, PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential, for a PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR), at the time of RUC execution.  For an IRR, the RCAPSNAP variable used below shall be equal to the minimum of the WGRPP or PVGRPP described above and the HSL value as reflected in the QSE’s COP, at the time of the RUC execution. 
(3)	In calculating the amount short for each QSE, the QSE must be given a capacity credit for non-Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) that were given notice of decommitment within the two hours before the Operating Hour as a result of the RUC process by setting the RCAPSNAP and RCAPADJ variables used below set equal to the RCAPSNAP value for the Resource immediately before the decommitment instruction was given.
(4)	In calculating the short amount for each QSE, if the RCAPSNAP for a non-IRR was credited to the QSE during the RUC Snapshot but the Resource experiences a Forced Outage within two hours before the start of the Settlement Interval, then the RCAPSNAP for that Resource is also credited to the QSE in the RCAPADJ.
(5)	In calculating the short amount for each QSE, if the DCIMPSNAP was credited to the QSE during the RUC Snapshot but the entire Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) experiences a Forced Outage within two hours before the start of the Settlement Interval, then the DCIMPSNAP is also credited to the QSE in the RTDCIMP.
(6)	For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, if more than one Combined Cycle Generation Resource is shown On-Line in its COP for the same Settlement hour, then the provisions of paragraph (6)(a) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, apply in the determination of the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource for that Settlement hour.
(7)	The QSE Ancillary Service shortfall calculation in MW for each hour in the RUC Snapshot or for the end of the Adjustment Period involves solving an optimization that minimizes any potential Ancillary Service shortfall for a QSE.   This is done by determining the optimal utilization of Ancillary Service capabilities within each QSE’s portfolio of Resources to meet its net Ancillary Service position for each Ancillary Service sub-type.  A QSE’s Ancillary Service shortfall for an hour is the difference between the QSE’s net Ancillary Service position and its coverage of Ancillary Services using the outputs of this optimization based on the QSE’s Resource Ancillary Service capabilities for that hour as reflected in the COPs submitted by the QSE.
(a)	For each Ancillary Service sub-type, the Ancillary Service MW capability for each Resource in the QSE’s portfolio for a given hour in the RUC Snapshot or at the end of the Adjustment Period (ASMWCAPSNAP and ASMWCAPADJ) is calculated as the minimum of:
(i)	HSL minus LSL in the COP if the Resource is On-Line (ON, ONOS, ONSC, and ONL).  If a Generation Resource COP Resource Status is OFF or OFFQS, only the COP HSL is used.  For a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource refers to a particular Combined Cycle Generation Resource belonging to that Combined Cycle Train.  For a Combined Cycle Train, select the Combined Cycle Generation Resource that is On-Line (ON or ONOS) with the highest HSL.  If none of the Combined Cycle Generation Resources of a Combined Cycle Train are On-Line, then select the Combined Cycle Generation Resource that has the highest HSL and a COP Resource Status of OFF and that can be started up within 30 minutes;
(ii)	Submitted Ancillary Service Offer MW quantity for the Ancillary Service type/sub-type;
(iii)	Submitted COP Ancillary Service MW capability; and
(iv)	Qualified Ancillary Service MW amount for the Ancillary Service sub-type.  For Resources with COP Resource Status of OFFQS, the qualified MW amounts for Reg-Up, Reg-Down, and RRS will be set to zero.  For Resources with a COP Resource Status of OFF, the qualified MW amounts for Reg-Up, Reg-Down, RRS, and ECRS will be set to zero.
(b)	The QSE Ancillary Service shortfall calculation enforces the following constraints for each hour using data from the RUC Snapshot or the end of the Adjustment Period:
(i)	Ensure that a QSE’s portfolio of Resource capacities are only used to cover that QSE’s net Ancillary Service position by each Ancillary Service sub-type.
(ii)	A QSE’s Fast Frequency Response Service (FFRS) position can be covered by the QSE’s portfolio of Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) qualified to provide FFRS, Load Resources having a high-set under-frequency Relay that are qualified for Responsive Reserve (RRS) or Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), Generation Resources, and ESRs that are qualified to provide RRS as Primary Frequency Response.
(iii)	A QSE’s RRS position of the type provided by Load Resources having a high-set under-frequency Relay that are qualified for RRS can be covered by the QSE’s portfolio of Load Resources qualified to provide this type of RRS or CLRs, Generation Resources, and ESRs that are qualified to provide RRS as Primary Frequency Response.
(iv)	A QSE’s ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) position of the type that is not SCED-dispatchable can be covered by the QSE’s portfolio of Load Resources that are qualified to provide non-SCED dispatchable ECRS, or by CLRs, Generation Resources, and ESRs that are qualified to provide ECRS of the type that is SCED-dispatchable.
(v)	A QSE’s Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) position of the type that is not SCED-dispatchable can be covered by the QSE’s portfolios of Load Resources that are qualified to provide non-SCED dispatchable Non-Spin, or by CLRs, Generation Resources, and ESRs that are qualified to provide Non-Spin of the type that is SCED-dispatchable.
(vi)	For each Resource and Ancillary Service sub-type:
(A)	Ancillary Service capacity used for each Ancillary Service sub-type cannot exceed that Resource’s Ancillary Service capability for that Ancillary Service sub-type.
(B)	The sum of all the Ancillary Service capacities used for each Ancillary Service sub-type cannot exceed the COP HSL minus LSL limits.  For Generation Resources that have a Resource Status of OFF and the Ancillary Service type is Non-Spin, consider LSL to be zero.  Likewise, for Generation Resources that have a Resource Status of OFFQS and the Ancillary Service type is Non-Spin or ECRS, consider LSL to be zero.
(C)	For ESRs, consider:
(1)	Duration requirements for each Ancillary Service type and the submitted COP values for Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC), Minimum SOC (MinSOC) and Maximum SOC (MaxSOC); 
(2)	Ancillary Service deployment factors, duration requirements for different Ancillary Service types or sub-types, and the difference between the submitted COP Hour Beginning Planned SOC for the hour under consideration and the next hour; and
(3)	The charge or discharge MW required to satisfy the above constraints. 
(c)	The outputs of the optimization for each Resource are: 
(i)	The Resource’s MW capacity used to cover its QSE’s net Ancillary Service position by Ancillary Service sub-type for a given hour.  These values are ASMWCAPUSNAP for a given hour in the RUC Snapshot and ASMWCAPUADJ for the end of the Adjustment Period.
(ii)	For an ESR, the MW discharge (positive) or charge (negative) required to support the ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage of its QSE’s net Ancillary Service position, considering the submitted COP values for MinSOC, MaxSOC, and the difference in the Hour Beginning Planned SOC for the hour under consideration and the next hour.  This value will also account for Ancillary Service deployment factors and the duration requirements for energy and different Ancillary Service types.  These values are MWSNAP for a given hour in the RUC Snapshot and MWADJ for the end of the Adjustment Period.
(8)	The capacity shortfall ratio share of a specific QSE for a particular RUC process is calculated, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, as follows:
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	=	RUCSF ruc, i, q / RUCSFTOT ruc, i
Where:
RUCSFTOT ruc, i	=	 RUCSF ruc, i, q
(9)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCSF ruc, i, q	=	Max (0, Max (RUCSFSNAP ruc, q, i, RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i) –  RUCCAPCREDIT q, i, z)
(10)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval, as measured at the RUC Snapshot, is:
RUCSFSNAP ruc ,q ,i	=	Max (RUCOSFSNAP ruc, q, i , RUCASFSNAP ruc, q, i)
(11)	The overall shortfall in MW that a QSE had according to the RUC Snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCOSFSNAP ruc, q, i   =  Max (0, (( RTAML q, p, i * 4) + ASONPOSSNAP ruc, q, i  – RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i))
The QSE’s On-Line Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
ASONPOSSNAP ruc, q, i   =  RUPOSSNAP ruc, q, h  + RRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h +                                  ECRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + Max (0, (NSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h –  ASOFFOFRSNAP ruc, q, r, h))
	The amount of capacity that a QSE had according to the RUC Snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i =	 RCAPSNAP ruc, q, r, h + (RUCCPSNAP ruc, q, h – RUCCSSNAP ruc, q, h) + ( DAEP q, p, h – DAES q, p, h) + ( RTQQEPSNAP ruc, q, p, i –  RTQQESSNAP ruc, q, p, i) +    DCIMPSNAP ruc, q, p, i +  ASOFRLRSNAP ruc, q, r, h + ESRMWSNAP ruc, q, h + ESRASSNAP ruc, q, h  
Where: 
The QSE’s net up Ancillary Service position (Reg-Up + RRS + ECRS + Non-Spin) covered by the QSE’s portfolio of ESRs is: 
ESRASSNAP ruc, q, h =  Σ┬ASSubTypeASMWCAPUSNAP ruc, q, h, ASSubType, r
The sum of the QSE’s ESR discharging (positive) or charging (negative) output is: 
ESRMWSNAP ruc, q, h =  MWSNAP ruc, q, h, r
(12)	The Ancillary Service shortfall in MW that a QSE had according to the RUC Snapshot for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCASFSNAP ruc, q, i   =  RUPOSSNAP ruc, q, h +  RDPOSSNAP ruc, q, h 
+ RRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + ECRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h 
+ NSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h – ASMWCAPUQSNAP ruc, q, h
Where:
ASMWCAPUQSNAP ruc, q, h  =  Σ┬ASSubTypeASMWCAPUSNAP ruc, q, h, ASSubType, r
RRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h = Max(0, PFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + Max(0, UFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + FFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h))
ECRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h = Max(0, ECSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + ECMPOSSNAP ruc, q, h)
NSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h = Max(0, NSSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h + NSMPOSSNAP ruc, q, h)
(13)	The RUC Shortfall in MW for one QSE for one 15-minute Settlement Interval, as measured at the end of the Adjustment Period, is:
RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i	=	Max (RUCOSFADJ ruc, q, i, RUCASFADJ q, i )
(14)	The overall shortfall in MW that a QSE had at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, but including capacity from IRRs as seen in the RUC Snapshot, is:
RUCOSFADJ ruc, q, i  = Max (0, (( RTAML q, p, i *4) + ASONPOSADJ q, i – ( RCAPSNAP ruc, q, r, h + RUCCAPADJ q, i)))
Where:
The On-Line Ancillary Service Position the QSE had at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
ASONPOSADJ q ,i   =  RUPOSADJ q, h  + RRPOSADJ q, h + ECRPOSADJ q, h + Max (0, (NSPOSADJ q, h –  ASOFFOFRADJ  q, r, h))
	The amount of capacity that a QSE had at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, excluding capacity from IRRs, is:
RUCCAPADJ q, i =	 RCAPADJ q, r, h + (RUCCPADJ q, h – RUCCSADJ q, h) + ( DAEP q, p, h –  DAES q, p, h) + ( RTQQEPADJ q, p, i –  RTQQESADJ q, p, i) +   RTDCIMP q, p +  ASOFRLRADJ  q, r, h + ESRMWADJ q, h + ESRASADJ q, h
Where: 
The QSE’s net up Ancillary Service position (Reg-Up + RRS + ECRS + Non-Spin) covered by the QSE’s portfolio of ESRs is: 

ESRASADJ q, h =  Σ┬ASSubTypeASMWCAPUADJ q, h, ASSubType, r

The sum of the QSE’s ESR discharging (positive) or charging (negative) output is: 
ESRMWADJ q, h =  MWADJ q, h, r
(15)	The Ancillary Service shortfall in MW that a QSE had at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is:
RUCASFADJ q, i   = RUPOSADJ q, h + RDPOSADJ q, h 
+ RRPOSADJ q, h + ECRPOSADJ q, h + NSPOSADJ q, h 
– ASMWCAPUQADJ q, h
Where:
ASMWCAPUQADJ q, h =  Σ┬ASSubTypeASMWCAPUADJ  q, h, ASSubType, r
RRPOSADJ q, h = Max(0, PFPOSADJ q, h + Max(0,UFPOSADJ q, h + FFPOSADJ q, h))
ECRPOSADJ q, h = Max(0, ECSPOSADJ q, h + ECMPOSADJ q, h)
NSPOSADJ q, h = Max(0,NSSPOSADJ q, h + NSMPOSADJ q, h)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCSFRS ruc, i, q	none	RUC Shortfall Ratio Share—The ratio of the QSE q’s capacity shortfall to the sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSF ruc, i, q	MW	RUC Shortfall—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFTOT ruc, i	MW	RUC Shortfall Total—The sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for a RUC process ruc, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Shortfall at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity shortfall will be the maximum of the QSE’s overall shortfall or Ancillary Service shortfall, as calculated for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCSFADJ ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Shortfall at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s end of Adjustment Period capacity shortfall will be the maximum of the QSE’s overall shortfall or Ancillary Service shortfall, as calculated for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCAPCREDIT q, i, z	MW	RUC Capacity Credit—The QSE q’s capacity credit resulting from capacity paid through the RUC Capacity-Short Amount for RUC process z for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCOSFSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Overall Shortfall at Snapshot —The QSE q’s overall capacity shortfall according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCASFSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Ancillary Service Shortfall at Snapshot —The QSE q’s Ancillary Service capacity shortfall according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
ASONPOSSNAP ruc ,q ,i	MW	Ancillary Service On-Line Position at Snapshot – The QSE q’s total On-Line Ancillary Service position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i. 
RUPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Regulation Up Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time Reg-Up Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve Service Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time RRS Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ECRPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time ECRS Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
NSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time Non-Spin Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RDPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Regulation Down Position at Snapshot The QSE q’s net positive Real-Time Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASOFFOFRSNAP ruc, q, r, h	MW	Ancillary Service Offline Offers at Snapshot –The capacity represented by validated Ancillary Service Offers for Non-Spin for Resource r with COP status of “OFF”, represented by QSE q according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  A Resource’s offered capacity is only included in the sum to the extent that the Resource’s COP Status and Ancillary Service Capability indicate it would be capable of providing the Ancillary Service during the hour h.
ASOFRLRSNAP ruc, q, r, h	MW	Ancillary Service Offer per Load Resource at Snapshot – The capacity represented by validated Ancillary Service Offers for Reg-Up, Non-Spin, RRS, and ECRS for the Load Resource r represented by QSE q according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  A Resource’s offered capacity is only included in the sum to the extent that the Resource’s COP Status and Ancillary Service Capability indicate it would be capable of providing the Ancillary Service during the hour h.
PFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Governor Response or Governor-Like Response) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net Real-Time RRS-PFR Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
UFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Under Frequency trigger at 59.7 Hz.) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net Real-Time RRS-UFR Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
FFPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Fast Frequency Response) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net positive Real-Time RRS-FFR Ancillary Service Position according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ECSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (SCED Dispatchable) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net ECRS Ancillary Service Position that is SCED-dispatchable according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval. This value can be positive or negative.
ECMPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (Non-SCED Dispatchable) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net positive ECRS Ancillary Service Position that is non-SCED-dispatchable according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
NSSPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service (SCED Dispatchable) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net Non-Spin Ancillary Service Position that is SCED-dispatchable according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
NSMPOSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service (Non-SCED Dispatchable) Position at SnapshotThe QSE q’s net positive Non-Spin Ancillary Service Position that is non-SCED-dispatchable according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASMWCAPUQSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Calculated Total MW Capacity used to cover the QSE’s Ancillary Service Position at Snapshot—The calculated total MW capacity for a QSE q that represents the amount of the QSE’s Ancillary Service Position covered by its Resources for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASMWCAPUSNAP ruc, q, h, ASSubtype, r	MW	Calculated MW Capacity used to cover the QSE’s ‘AStype’ Ancillary Service Position at Snapshot—The calculated MW Capacity of a Resource r represented by QSE q that is used to cover its QSE’s “ASSubtype” Ancillary Service Position for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
MWSNAP ruc, q, h, r	MW	Calculated MW required to support ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage at Snapshot—The MW discharge (positive) or charge (negative) required to support the ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage considering the submitted COP values for Hour Beginning Planned SOC, MinSOC, MaxSOC and the difference in the Hour Beginning Planned SOC for the hour under consideration and the next hour while accounting for Ancillary Service deployment factors and the duration requirements for energy and different Ancillary Service types Position for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ESRASSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Calculated Ancillary Service MW Capacity Provided By QSE’s ESR Portfolio at  Snapshot—The total ESR MW capacity used to cover the QSE q’s Upward Ancillary Service position for Reg-Up, RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ESRMWSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	Calculated QSE Total ESR MW Discharging or Charging Required To Support Ancillary Service at Snapshot—The total net ESR MW discharging or charging required to cover the QSE q’s Ancillary Service position provided by the QSE ESR portfolio in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval, taking into account the COP SOC values from COP.
RUCOSFADJ ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Overall Shortfall at End of Adjustment Period —The QSE q’s overall capacity shortfall at the end of the Adjustment Period, including capacity from IRRs as seen in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCASFADJ q, i	MW	RUC Ancillary Service Shortfall at End of Adjustment Period —The QSE q’s Ancillary Service capacity shortfall at the end of the Adjustment Period for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
ASONPOSADJ q ,i	MW	Ancillary Service On-Line Position at End of Adjustment Period – The QSE q’s total On-Line Ancillary Service position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUPOSADJ q, h	MW	Regulation Up Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive Reg-Up Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RRPOSADJ q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve Service Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive RRS Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ECRPOSADJ q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive ECRS Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
NSPOSADJ q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive Non-Spin Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RDPOSADJ q, h	MW	Regulation Down Position at End of Adjustment Period The QSE q’s net positive Reg-Down Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASOFFOFRADJ  q, r, h	MW	Ancillary Service Offline Offers at End of Adjustment Period –The capacity represented by validated Ancillary Service Offers for Non-Spin for Resource r with COP status of “OFF”, represented by QSE q at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.  A Resource’s offered capacity is only included in the sum to the extent that the Resource’s COP Status and Ancillary Service Capability indicate it would be capable of providing the Ancillary Service during the hour h.
ASOFRLRADJ  q, r, h	MW	Ancillary Service Offer per Load Resource at End of Adjustment Period – The capacity represented by validated Ancillary Service Offers for Reg-Up, Non-Spin, RRS, and ECRS for the Load Resource r represented by QSE q at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  A Resource’s offered capacity is only included in the sum to the extent that the Resource’s COP Status and Ancillary Service Capability indicate it would be capable of providing the Ancillary Service during the hour h.
PFPOSADJ q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Governor Response or Governor-Like Response) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net RRS-PFR Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval. This value can be positive or negative.
UFPOSADJ q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Under Frequency trigger at 59.7 Hz.) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net RRS-UFR Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
FFPOSADJ q, h	MW	Responsive Reserve (Fast Frequency Response) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net positive RRS-FFR Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ECSPOSADJ q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (SCED Dispatchable) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net ECRS SCED Dispatchable Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
ECMPOSADJ q, h	MW	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (Non-SCED Dispatchable) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net positive ECRS non-SCED-dispatchable Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
NSSPOSADJ q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service (SCED Dispatchable) Position at End of Adjustment PeriodThe QSE q’s net Non-Spin SCED-dispatchable Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  This value can be positive or negative.
NSMPOSADJ q, h	MW	Non-Spin Reserve Service (Non-SCED Dispatchable) Position at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s net positive Non-Spin non-SCED-dispatchable Ancillary Service Position at the end of the Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASMWCAPUQADJ q, h	MW	Calculated Total MW Capacity used to cover the QSE’s Ancillary Service Position at End of Adjustment Period—The calculated total MW capacity for a QSE q that represents the amount of the QSE’s Ancillary Service Position covered by its Resources at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ASMWCAPUADJ q, h, ASSubtype, r	MW	Calculated MW Capacity used to cover the QSE’s ‘AStype’ Ancillary Service Position at End of Adjustment Period—The calculated MW Capacity of a Resource r represented by QSE q that is used to cover its QSE’s “ASSubtype” Ancillary Service Position at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
MWADJ q, h, r	MW	Calculated MW discharge (positive) or charge (negative) required to support ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage at End of Adjustment Period—The MW discharge (positive) or charge (negative) required to support the ESR’s calculated Ancillary Service coverage considering the submitted COP values for Hour Beginning Planned SOC, MinSOC, MaxSOC and the difference in the Hour Beginning Planned SOC for the hour under consideration and the next hour while accounting for Ancillary Service deployment factors and the duration requirements for energy and different Ancillary Service types Position at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ESRASADJ q, h	MW	Calculated Ancillary Service MW Capacity Provided By QSE’s ESR Portfolio at the End of Adjustment Period—The total ESR MW capacity used to cover the QSE q’s Upward Ancillary Service position for Reg-Up, RRS, ECRS, and Non-Spin at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
ESRMWADJ q, h	MW	Calculated QSE Total ESR MW Discharging or Charging Required To Support Ancillary Service at End of Adjustment Period—The total net ESR MW discharging or charging required to cover the QSE q’s Ancillary Service position provided by the QSE ESR portfolio at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval, taking into account the COP SOC values from COP.
RTAML q, p, i	MWh	Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load—The QSE q’s Adjusted Metered Load (AML) at the Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RUCCAPSNAP ruc, q, i	MW	RUC Capacity Snapshot at time of RUC—The amount of the QSE q’s calculated capacity in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.  
RCAPSNAP ruc, q, r, h	MW	Resource Capacity at Snapshot—The available capacity of Generation Resource r represented by the QSE q, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  For Generation Resources that are not IRRs, the available capacity shall be equal to HSL.  For WGRs and PVGRs, the available capacity shall be equal to the lesser of the HSL or the WGRPP and the PVGRPP, respectively.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train. 
DCIMPSNAP ruc, q, p, i	MW	DC Import at Snapshot—The approved aggregated DC Tie Schedule submitted by QSE q as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTDCIMP q, p	MW	Real-Time DC Import per QSE per Settlement Point—The aggregated final, approved DC Tie Schedule submitted by QSE q as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCPSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Purchase at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity purchase, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSSNAP ruc, q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Sale at Snapshot—The QSE q’s capacity sale, according to the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCAPADJ q, i	MW	RUC Capacity at End of Adjustment Period—The amount of the QSE q’s calculated capacity, excluding capacity for IRRs, at the end of the Adjustment Period for a 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RCAPADJ q, r, h	MW	Resource Capacity at End of Adjustment Period—The HSL of a non-IRR Generation Resource r represented by the QSE q at the end of the Adjustment Period, for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train. 
RUCCPADJ q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Purchase at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s capacity purchase, at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSADJ q, h	MW	RUC Capacity Sale at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s capacity sale, at the end of Adjustment Period for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
DAEP q, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase—The QSE q’s energy purchased in the DAM at the Settlement Point p for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
DAES q, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale—The QSE q’s energy sold in the DAM at the Settlement Point p for the hour h that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTQQEPSNAP ruc, q, p, i	MW	Real-Time QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase at Snapshot—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the buyer at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc.
RTQQESSNAP ruc, q, p, i	MW	Real-Time QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale at Snapshot—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the seller at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, in the RUC Snapshot for the RUC process ruc.
RTQQEPADJ q, p, i	MW	Real-Time QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the buyer at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, at the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
RTQQESADJ q, p, i	MW	Real-Time QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale at End of Adjustment Period—The QSE q’s Energy Trades in which the QSE is the seller at the delivery Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, at the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
r	none	A Generation Resource, an ESR, or a Load Resource.
ASSubType	none	Ancillary Service Sub-Type: Reg-Up, Reg-Down, RRS provided as Primary Frequency Response, RRS provided via a high-set under-frequency relay, Fast Frequency Response (FFR), ECRS that is SCED-dispatchable, ECRS that is non-SCED dispatchable, Non-Spin that is SCED-dispatchable, and Non-Spin that is non-SCED-dispatchable.
z	none	A previous RUC process for the Operating Day.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
ruc	none	The RUC process for which this RUC Shortfall Ratio Share is calculated.

5.7.4.1.2	RUC Capacity Credit
(1)	A QSE that is charged for a capacity shortfall in one RUC process gets a capacity credit equal to the minimum of the QSE’s RUC shortfall (MW) or the total RUC capacity purchased multiplied by the QSE’s shortfall ratio share.  The capacity credit to be used in future RUC processes for the same 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
RUCCAPCREDITruc,i,q	=	Min [RUCSFruc,i,q, (RUCCAPTOTruc,h* RUCSFRSruc,i,q)]
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RUCCAPCREDITruc,i,q	MW	RUC Capacity Credit by QSE—The capacity credit resulting from capacity paid through the RUC Capacity-Short Charge for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  
RUCSFruc,i,q	MW	RUC Shortfall—The QSE’s capacity shortfall for the RUC process for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCSFRSruc,i,q	none	RUC Shortfall Ratio Share—The ratio of the QSE’s capacity shortfall to the sum of all QSEs’ capacity shortfalls, for the RUC process, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCAPTOTruc,h	MW	RUC Capacity Total—The total capacity of all RUC-committed Resources during the RUC process, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  
q	none	A QSE.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
ruc	none	The RUC process for which this RUC Capacity Credit is calculated.
5.7.4.2	RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge
(1)	If the revenues from the charges under Section 5.7.4.1, RUC Capacity-Short Charge, are not enough to cover all RUC Make-Whole Payments, including amounts for RMR Units, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval, then the difference will be uplifted to all QSEs on a Load Ratio Share basis, as a RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge, calculated as follows: 
LARUCAMTq,i	=	(-1) * ( RUCMWAMTTOTh / 4 + RUCCSAMTTOTi) * LRSq,i
Where:
	RUCMWAMTTOTh 		=	 RUCMWAMTRUCTOTruc,h
	RUCCSAMTTOTi	    	 =	  RUCCSAMTruc,i,q

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LARUCAMTq,i	$	RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge—The amount owed from the QSE based on Load Ratio Share, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCMWAMTTOTh	$	RUC Make-Whole Amount Total—The sum of RUC Make-Whole Payments for all RUC processes, including amounts for RMR Units, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCMWAMTRUCTOTruc,h	$	RUC Make-Whole Amount Total per RUC—The sum of RUC Make-Whole Payments for a particular RUC process, including payments for RMR Units, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSAMTTOTi	$	RUC Capacity Amount Total—The sum of RUC Capacity-Short Charges for all QSEs and RUC processes, including payments for RMR Units, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCSAMTruc,i,q	$	RUC Capacity-Short Amount—The charge to a QSE, due to capacity shortfall for a particular RUC process, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
LRSq,i	none	Load Ratio Share—The ratio of Adjusted Metered Load to the total ERCOT Adjusted Metered Load for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See Section 6.6.2, Load Ratio Share, item (2).
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
ruc	none	A RUC Process.
q	none	A QSE.
5.7.5	RUC Clawback Payment
(1)	ERCOT shall pay the revenues from all RUC Clawback Charges, including amounts for RMR Units, in a 15-minute Settlement Interval to all QSEs, on an LRS basis, as the RUC Clawback Payment.  The RUC Clawback Payment is calculated as follows for each QSE for each 15-minute Settlement Interval: 
LARUCCBAMTq,i	=	(-1) * (RUCCBAMTTOTh / 4 * LRSq,i)
Where:
	RUCCBAMTTOTh	=	  RUCCBAMTq,r,h
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LARUCCBAMTq,i	$	RUC Clawback Payment—The RUC make-whole clawback payment to a QSE to uplift RUC Make-Whole Clawback Charges received, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCCBAMTTOTh	$	RUC Clawback Charge Total —The sum of RUC Clawback Charges to all QSEs, including amounts for RMR Units, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
LRSq,i	none	Load Ratio Share—The LRS for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See Section 6.6.2, Load Ratio Share.
RUCCBAMTq,r,h	$	RUC Clawback Charge—The RUC Clawback Charge to the QSE q for the Resource r, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are committed by RUC, a charge is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-committed Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	None	A QSE.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
r	none	A RUC-committed Generation Resource.
5.7.6	RUC Decommitment Charge 
(1)	ERCOT shall charge each QSE a RUC Decommitment Charge, on an LRS basis, all revenues paid as a result of RUC Decommitment Payments, including amounts for RMR Units.  The RUC Decommitment Charge for a 15-minute Settlement Interval is calculated as follows:
LARUCDCAMTq,i	=	(-1) * [(RUCDCAMTTOTh / 4) * LRSq,i]
Where:
	RUCDCAMTTOTh	=	  RUCDCAMTq,r,h
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LARUCDCAMTq,i	$	RUC Decommitment Charge—The RUC Decommitment Charge to a QSE, for a 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RUCDCAMTTOTh	$	RUC Decommitment Charge Total—The sum of RUC Decommitment Payments to all QSEs, including amounts for RMR Units, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
LRSq,i	none	Load Ratio Share—The LRS for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  See Section 6.6.2, Load Ratio Share.
RUCDCAMTq,r,h	$	RUC Decommitment Charge—The RUC Decommitment Charge to the QSE q for the Resource r, for the hour that includes the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  When one or more Combined Cycle Generation Resources are decommitted by RUC, payment is made to the Combined Cycle Train for all RUC-decommitted Combined Cycle Generation Resources.
q	None	A QSE.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
r 	None	A RUC-decommitted Generation Resource.
5.7.7 	Settlement of Switchable Generation Resources (SWGRs) Operating in a Non-ERCOT Control Area
(1)	A QSE representing an SWGR operating in ERCOT due to a RUC instruction for an actual or anticipated EEA condition with a status of ONRUC is not eligible for RUC Settlement as described in Section 5.7.1, RUC Make-Whole Payment, and Section 5.7.2, RUC Clawback Charge, but may obtain compensation by submitting a Settlement and billing dispute pursuant to Section 6.6.12, Make-Whole Payment for Switchable Generation Resources Committed for Energy Emergency Alert (EEA).
5.8	Annual RUC Reporting Requirement
(1)	ERCOT shall report to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), each January, an assessment of market impacts and Settlements for the aggregate Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) activity, delineated by type of RUC instruction as follows:
(a) 	RUC instructions issued for Ancillary Service shortages (failure to sufficiently procure one or more Ancillary Service markets in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or subsequent Supplemental Ancillary Service Markets (SASMs));
[NPRR1009:  Delete paragraph (a) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(b)	RUC instructions issued for irresolvable transmission system constraints;
(c) 	RUC instructions issued in anticipation of extreme cold weather/startup failures;
(d)	RUC instructions issued for capacity;
[NPRR1204:  Insert paragraph (e) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly:]
(e)	RUC instructions issued for expected Energy Storage Resource (ESR) energy consumption;
(e)	RUC instructions issued for system inertia;
(f)	RUC instructions issued to Resources receiving an Outage Schedule Adjustment (OSA); and
(g)	A summary of RUC Settlements;
(i)	RUC charges associated with RUC Make-Whole Amount Total per RUC, as defined in Section 5.7.4.1, RUC Capacity-Short Charge; and
(ii)	RUC Shortfall Total, as defined in Section 5.7.4.1.1, Capacity Shortfall Ratio Share.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 7:  Congestion Revenue Rights

April 1, 2025




 
7	Congestion Revenue Rights	7-1
7.1	Function of Congestion Revenue Rights	7-1
7.2	Characteristics of Congestion Revenue Rights	7-2
7.2.1	CRR Naming Convention	7-2
7.3	Types of Congestion Revenue Rights to Be Auctioned	7-2
7.3.1	Flowgates	7-3
7.3.1.1	Process for Defining Flowgates	7-3
7.3.1.2	Defined Flowgates	7-3
7.4	Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Rights Overview	7-3
7.4.1	PCRR Allocation Eligibility	7-4
7.4.1.1	PCRR Criteria for NOIE Allocation Eligibility	7-4
7.4.1.2	NOIE Allocation Eligibility for PCRRs Impacted By Long-Term Outages of Generation Resources and Mothballed Generation Resources	7-6
7.4.1.3	PCRR Disqualification	7-8
7.4.1.3.1	PCRR Disqualifying Events	7-8
7.4.1.3.2	Effect of PCRR Disqualification	7-9
7.4.2	PCRR Allocation and Nomination Terms and Conditions	7-10
7.4.2.1	PCRR Allocation and Nomination Amounts	7-10
7.4.2.2	PCRR Allocations and Nominations	7-11
7.5	CRR Auctions	7-14
7.5.1	Nature and Timing	7-14
7.5.2	CRR Auction Offers and Bids	7-17
7.5.2.1	CRR Auction Offer Criteria	7-18
7.5.2.2	CRR Auction Offer Validation	7-20
7.5.2.3	CRR Auction Bid Criteria	7-21
7.5.2.4	CRR Auction Bid Validation	7-21
7.5.3	ERCOT Responsibilities	7-22
7.5.3.1	Data Transparency	7-23
7.5.3.2	Auction Notices	7-24
7.5.4	CRR Account Holder Responsibilities	7-25
7.5.5	Auction Clearing Methodology	7-25
7.5.5.1	Creditworthiness	7-25
7.5.5.2	Disclosure of CRR Ownership	7-25
7.5.5.3	Auction Process	7-25
7.5.5.4	Simultaneous Feasibility Test	7-29
7.5.6	CRR Auction Settlements	7-30
7.5.6.1	Payment of an Awarded CRR Auction Offer	7-30
7.5.6.2	Charge of an Awarded CRR Auction Bid	7-31
7.5.6.3	Charge of PCRRs Pertaining to a CRR Auction	7-32
7.5.6.4	CRR Auction Revenues	7-34
7.5.7	Method for Distributing CRR Auction Revenues	7-37
7.6	CRR Balancing Account	7-40
7.7	Point-to-Point (PTP) Option Award Charge	7-43
7.7.1	Determination of the PTP Option Award Charge	7-43
7.7.2	[RESERVED]	7-44
7.8	Bilateral Trades and ERCOT CRR Registration System	7-44
7.9	CRR Settlements	7-45
7.9.1	Day-Ahead CRR Payments and Charges	7-45
7.9.1.1	Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in DAM	7-45
7.9.1.2	Payments for PTP Options Settled in DAM	7-47
7.9.1.3	Minimum and Maximum Resource Prices	7-50
7.9.1.4	Payments for FGRs Settled in DAM	7-54
7.9.1.5	Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund Settled in DAM	7-54
7.9.1.6	Payments for PTP Options with Refund Settled in DAM	7-56
7.9.2	Real-Time CRR Payments and Charges	7-58
7.9.2.1	Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in Real-Time	7-58
7.9.2.2	Payments for PTP Options Settled in Real-Time	7-61
7.9.2.3	Payments for NOIE PTP Options with Refund Settled in Real-Time	7-62
7.9.2.4	Payments for FGRs in Real-Time	7-64
7.9.2.5	Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund in Real-Time	7-64
7.9.3	CRR Balancing Account	7-66
7.9.3.1	DAM Congestion Rent	7-66
7.9.3.2	Credit to CRR Balancing Account	7-66
7.9.3.3	Shortfall Charges to CRR Owners	7-71
7.9.3.4	Monthly Refunds to Short-Paid CRR Owners	7-72
7.9.3.5	CRR Balancing Account Closure	7-74
7.9.3.6	Rolling CRR Balancing Account Fund	7-75


	

 
7	CONGESTION REVENUE RIGHTS
7.1	Function of Congestion Revenue Rights
(1)	A Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) is a financial instrument that entitles the CRR Owner to be charged or to receive compensation for congestion rents that arise when the ERCOT Transmission Grid is congested in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or in Real-Time.  CRRs do not represent a right to receive, or obligation to deliver, physical energy.  Most CRRs are tradable in the CRR Auction, in the DAM, or bilaterally, as described in more detail in this Section.
(2)	CRRs may be acquired as follows:
(a)	CRR Auction – ERCOT shall conduct periodic auctions to allow eligible CRR Account Holders to acquire CRRs.  The auction also allows CRR Owners an opportunity to sell CRRs that they hold.
(b)	PCRR Allocations – ERCOT shall allocate CRRs (known as Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Rights (PCRRs)) to eligible Municipally Owned Utilities (MOUs) and Electric Cooperatives (ECs) under Section 7.4, Preassigned Congestion Revenue Rights Overview. 
(c)	Bilateral Market – CRR Account Holders may trade Point-to-Point (PTP) Options and PTP Obligations bilaterally.  PTP Options with Refund and PTP Obligations with Refund are not bilaterally tradable.  Bilateral trading may be done privately or through ERCOT.  ERCOT shall facilitate trading on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area of existing CRRs between CRR Account Holders, subject to credit requirements.  ERCOT shall settle CRRs with the CRR Account Holder shown on ERCOT records.
(d)	DAM – Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) may bid for PTP Obligations in the DAM. 
(3)	Each CRR is one of these types:
(a)	PTP Option, some of which may be PCRRs;
(b)	PTP Obligation, some of which may be PCRRs;
(c)	PTP Option with Refund, all of which are PCRRs;
(d)	PTP Obligation with Refund, all of which are PCRRs; and
(e)	Flowgate Right (FGR).
7.2	Characteristics of Congestion Revenue Rights
(1)	Each CRR has the following characteristics:
(a)	Quantities are measured in MWs with granularity of tenths of MWs (0.1 MW);
(b)	A duration of one hour; 
(c)	An ability to be fully tradable financial instruments except in specified time-of-use blocks for a PTP Option with Refund and a PTP Obligation with Refund; and  
(d)	A designated source (injection point) that is a Settlement Point and a designated sink (withdrawal point) that is a different Settlement Point, except for a Flowgate Right (FGR), which has a designated directional network element, or a bundle of directional network elements, instead.
7.2.1	CRR Naming Convention
(1)	The appropriate TAC subcommittee shall establish a task force that is open to Market Participants, comprised of technical experts, to develop a naming convention for CRRs consistent with the requirements of the Protocols.  The naming convention must be approved by TAC before implementation. 
7.3	Types of Congestion Revenue Rights to Be Auctioned
(1)	ERCOT shall auction the following types of Congestion Revenue Rights (CRRs):
(a)	Point-to-Point (PTP) Options;
(b)	PTP Obligations; and
(c) 	Flowgate Rights (FGRs) that are defined in Section 7.3.1, Flowgates. 
(2)	PTP Options are evaluated hourly in each CRR Auction as the positive power flows on all directional network elements created by the injection and withdrawal at the specified source and sink points in the quantity represented by the CRR bid or offer (MW), excluding all negative flows on all directional network elements.  
(3)	PTP Obligations are evaluated hourly in each CRR Auction as the positive and negative power flows on all directional network elements created by the injection and withdrawal at the specified source and sink points of the quantity represented by the CRR bid or offer (MW).  
(4)	PTP Options can only result in payments from ERCOT to the CRR Owner of record.  A PTP Obligation may result in either a payment or a charge to the CRR Owner of record.
(5)	CRRs must be auctioned in the following Time Of Use (TOU) blocks (having the same MW amount for each hour within the block):
(a)	5x16 blocks for hours ending 0700-2200, Monday through Friday (excluding North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) holidays), in one-month strips;
(b)	2x16 blocks for hours ending 0700-2200, Saturday and Sunday, and NERC holidays in one-month strips; and
(c)	7x8 blocks for hours ending 0100-0600 and hours ending 2300-2400 Sunday through Saturday, in one-month strips.
(6)	CRR Auction bids and Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Right (PCRR) nominations must specify a TOU block. 
(7)	For the CRR Monthly Auction only, a single block bid may be submitted for all hours in a calendar month, which represents a linked-offer for all three TOU blocks described above in paragraph (5).
7.3.1	Flowgates
7.3.1.1	Process for Defining Flowgates
(1)	Flowgates where ERCOT offers FGRs may only be created by an amendment to Section 7.3.1.2, Defined Flowgates.  ERCOT shall post the list of all flowgates available for FGRs on the ERCOT website.  If there is any change in the designation of flowgates, ERCOT shall provide notice to all Market Participants as soon as practicable.
7.3.1.2	Defined Flowgates
(1)	There are currently no defined flowgates.
7.4	Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Rights Overview
(1)	ERCOT shall allocate a portion of available Congestion Revenue Rights (CRRs) as Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Rights (PCRRs) to Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs) that either have established ownership prior to September 1, 1999 in a specific Generation Resource or have a long-term (greater than five years) contractual commitment for annual capacity and energy that was entered into prior to September 1, 1999 from specific Generation Resources.  For purposes of this Section 7.4, such Generation Resources shall be referred to as “pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resources.”  An existing Generation Resource that interconnected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid on or after June 1, 2021, pursuant to paragraph (3) of Section 1.6.5, Interconnection of New or Existing Generation, cannot qualify as a pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource for PCRR purposes. 
(2) 	NOIEs are the only Entities eligible for an allocation of PCRRs.  NOIEs may designate an agent to manage their PCRRs, provided that ERCOT’s relationship is with the NOIE and that an agent shall be subject to all PCRR rules applicable to the NOIE.  ERCOT will rely exclusively on documentation provided or confirmed by the NOIE to determine the continued eligibility for allocation of PCRRs.  
(3)	ERCOT shall publish a list of NOIEs who are eligible for allocation of PCRRs on the ERCOT website.  The list shall include each NOIE’s ownership and/or contractual amount of capacity related to pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resources.  The list shall further include the eligible PCRR amounts capped at the net max sustainable rating (MW) of pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resources as established by 2010 registration data.  ERCOT shall update the list as necessary to reflect current NOIE eligibility for allocation of PCRRs. 
7.4.1	PCRR Allocation Eligibility
7.4.1.1	PCRR Criteria for NOIE Allocation Eligibility
(1)	PCRRs shall be limited to pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resources utilized by a NOIE to serve the Load in its service territory.  The following criteria shall apply for NOIE eligibility for allocation of PCRRs:
(a)	A Generation Resource owned by the NOIE nominating the PCRR(s) that meets the following:
(i)	The NOIE owned the Generation Resource prior to September 1, 1999 and has maintained uninterrupted ownership since September 1, 1999;
(ii)	The Generation Resource has remained in service on an uninterrupted basis except for Maintenance Outages, Forced Outages, Opportunity Outages or Planned Outages (including a Mothballed Generation Resource that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period) subsequent to September 1, 1999; and
(iii)	The NOIE utilizes the Generation Resource to meet its electric service obligations within its service territory in an amount at least equal to the nominated PCRR amount. 
(b)	A Generation Resource that is the subject of a long-term contract between the NOIE nominating the PCRR(s) and another Entity that owns or controls the Generation Resource, provided that the long-term contract meets the following criteria:
(i)	The contract was entered into prior to September 1, 1999 and has remained in effect on an uninterrupted basis since September 1, 1999; 
(ii)	The contract term is greater than five years.  Contracts with automatic renewal provisions (evergreen clauses), the operation of which extends beyond the term of the contract to more than the cumulative five years, shall meet this requirement, provided that the automatic renewal provision was in place prior to September 1, 1999;  
(iii)	The NOIE is entitled to capacity from specific Generation Resource(s) pursuant to the long-term contract; long-term contracts that are not backed by specific Generation Resources are not eligible for PCRRs;
(iv)	The Generation Resource(s) that is/are the subject of the long-term contract has/have remained in service on an uninterrupted basis except for Maintenance Outages, Forced Outages, Opportunity Outages or Planned Outages (including a Mothballed Generation Resource that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period) since September 1, 1999; and
(v)	The Generation Resource(s) that is/are the subject of the long-term contract is/are utilized by the NOIE to meet its electric service obligations within its service territory in an amount at least equal to the nominated PCRR amount.
(c)	A federally-owned hydroelectric Generation Resource that is the subject of a series of sequential long-term contracts between the NOIE nominating the PCRR(s) and the federal government based upon a long-term (greater than five years) allocation from the federal government for annual capacity and energy produced at such federally-owned hydroelectric Generation Resource, and that allocation was in place prior to September 1, 1999.  
(d)	Multiple Generation Resources that are the subject of portfolio supply contracts that meet the requirements of paragraphs (1)(b)(i)-(ii) and (1)(b)(iv)-(v) above and are between a NOIE nominating the PCRR(s) and another non-NOIE.  For the purposes of this Section 7.4.1.1, portfolio supply contract shall mean an agreement under which multiple NOIEs receive wholesale capacity from another non-NOIE pursuant to a portfolio of specific Generation Resources.  Each NOIE who is eligible for PCRRs and is a party to a portfolio supply contract shall be allocated PCRRs based on its 2003 4-Coincident Peak (4-CP) ratio share of each Generation Resource in the portfolio.  The 2003 4-CP ratio share shall be calculated as the 4-CP of each NOIE divided by the total 4-CP of all NOIEs who were supplied by that portfolio of Generation Resources in 2003.  Each NOIE’s capacity entitlement shall be its 2003 4-CP ratio share multiplied by the net max sustainable rating from the 2010 registration data for each PCRR eligible Generation Resource in the portfolio.
(e)	The Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) is considered a PCRR-eligible Generation Resource for contracts of Tex-La Electric Cooperative of Texas, Inc. with supply resources located outside the ERCOT Region that meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(i)-(ii) and (iv)-(v) above.
(f) 	A Generation Resource that was the subject of a pre-September 1, 1999 long-term contract between the NOIE nominating the PCRR(s) and another Entity that owned or controlled the Generation Resource prior to September 1, 1999, and that has been acquired by the NOIE after September 1, 1999, shall be deemed for all purposes as a NOIE-owned pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource for purposes of paragraph (1) of Section 7.4.1.3.1, PCRR Disqualifying Events, provided that an option for the NOIE to acquire the Generation Resource was in place in the long-term contract prior to September 1, 1999.
7.4.1.2	NOIE Allocation Eligibility for PCRRs Impacted By Long-Term Outages of Generation Resources and Mothballed Generation Resources
(1)	A NOIE maintains allocation eligibility for PCRRs associated with a pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource that may be out of service for greater than 12 consecutive months if the Generation Resource is out of service pursuant to a Forced Outage and the time necessary to address the relevant Outage extends beyond 12 months, provided that the NOIE must demonstrate to ERCOT’s satisfaction that the Outage continues to be necessary and does not require the Resource Entity to cease or suspend operation of the Generation Resource pursuant to Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations.  
(a)	For a PCRR Nomination Year in which a PCRR-eligible Generation Resource is expected to return to service after a long-term Forced Outage (greater than 12 consecutive months), the NOIE is only eligible to receive PCRRs for the months in which the Generation Resource is expected to be in service for the entirety of the month. 
(b)	If the NOIE nominated and was awarded PCRRs during the annual PCRR allocation process for future months based on an anticipated return to service of a PCRR-eligible Generation Resource from a long-term Forced Outage (greater than 12 consecutive months), the NOIE shall notify ERCOT in writing of the intentions of the Resource Entity to return the Generation Resource to service no less than 60 days prior to the first day of the month in which the Generation Resource is scheduled to return to service. This notice requirement to retain allocated PCRRs is separate and distinct from the return to service requirement in Section 3.14.1.9, Generation Resource Status Updates.  If the Generation Resource will not be returned to service for the entirety of a month for which PCRRs were allocated, the associated CRRs will be voided for each impacted month and ERCOT will follow the appropriate option described in Section 7.4.1.3.2, Effect of PCRR Disqualification, in order to maximize the available transmission capacity for future monthly CRR Auctions.  To determine if the NOIE will retain any allocated PCRRs for future months, the NOIE shall provide to ERCOT a new expected return to service date and must follow the notice requirement and timeline in this paragraph above.
 (2)	A NOIE maintains allocation eligibility for PCRRs associated with a pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource if the Generation Resource becomes a Mothballed Generation Resource pursuant to Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, regardless of whether ERCOT determines that the Generation Resource is necessary for Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Service.
(a)	However, because the Generation Resource will not provide any capacity or energy to serve the NOIE’s Load in its service territory for the period in which it is designated as a Mothballed Generation Resource, a NOIE does not have an exclusive right to retain any allocated PCRRs during this period.  For any retained PCRRs, the NOIE shall follow the process detailed in Section 7.4.1.3.2, Effect of PCRR Disqualification. 
(b)	For a PCRR Nomination Year in which a PCRR-eligible Mothballed Generation Resource is expected to return to service (including a Mothballed Generation Resource that operates under a Seasonal Operation Period), the Generation Resource is only eligible for PCRRs for the months it is expected to be in service for the entirety of the month.
(c)	If the NOIE nominated and was awarded PCRRs during the annual PCRR allocation process for future months based on an anticipated return to service of a PCRR-eligible Mothballed Generation Resource, the NOIE shall notify ERCOT in writing of the intentions of the Resource Entity to return the Mothballed Generation Resource to service no less than 60 days prior to the first day of the month in which the Generation Resource is scheduled to return to service.  This notice requirement to retain allocated PCRRs is separate and distinct from the return to service requirement in Section 3.14.1.9.  If the Mothballed Generation Resource will not be returned to service for the entirety of a month for which PCRRs were allocated, the associated CRRs will be voided for each impacted month and ERCOT will follow the appropriate option described in Section 7.4.1.3.2 in order to maximize the available transmission capacity for future monthly CRR Auctions.  To determine if the NOIE will retain any allocated PCRRs for future months, the NOIE shall provide to ERCOT a new expected return to service date and must follow the notice requirement and timeline in this paragraph.
7.4.1.3	PCRR Disqualification
7.4.1.3.1	PCRR Disqualifying Events
(1)	A NOIE that owns a pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource shall no longer be eligible for allocation of PCRRs associated with that Generation Resource under the following conditions:
(a)	The Generation Resource is designated as decommissioned and retired pursuant to Section 3.14.1.1, Notification of Suspension of Operations, regardless of whether ERCOT determines that the Generation Resource is necessary for RMR Service.  
(b)	The Generation Resource is sold by the NOIE to another Entity, regardless of whether the NOIE later enters into a long-term supply contract with that Entity to serve the NOIE’s Load in its service territory.  The selling of a Generation Resource shall include the transfer of ownership of the Generation Resource and/or the sale of the energy and/or capacity of the Generation Resource pursuant to a contractual agreement.  However, a transfer of the Generation Resource to an Affiliate of the NOIE or to a generation and transmission Electric Cooperative (EC) for the benefit of the NOIE shall not serve as a disqualifying event as long as all other PCRR eligibility requirements remain in place.  
(2)	A NOIE that has a long-term contract with a pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource under paragraph (1)(b) of Section 7.4.1.1, PCRR Criteria for NOIE Allocation Eligibility, shall no longer be eligible for allocation of PCRRs associated with that Generation Resource upon termination of the long-term contract.  For purposes of this Section 7.4.1.3.1, termination of the relevant long-term contract shall include:
(a)	The Generation Resource is designated as decommissioned and retired pursuant to Section 3.14.1.1, regardless of whether ERCOT determines that the Generation Resource is necessary for RMR Service.
(b)	Any change in control of the capacity under the contract, including, but not limited to, assignment of the contract to another Entity.  The foregoing notwithstanding, a NOIE shall still be eligible to receive PCRRs if the capacity under the contract is transferred to another Entity or a generation and transmission EC for the benefit of the NOIE, the Entity or the generation and transmission EC continues to supply the NOIE under the same terms and conditions of the long-term contract, and the contract continues to meet all other relevant PCRR eligibility requirements.  
(c) 	Any change in the designation of Generation Resources backing a long-term contract after September 1, 1999, shall disqualify the long-term contract.
(d)	If the termination of a long-term contract applies to less than 100% of the capacity entitlement, the remaining capacity entitlement shall continue to qualify for PCRRs for the MW amount under the portion of the long-term contract that is not terminated, provided that the long-term contract otherwise continues to meet all other PCRR eligibility requirements.  
(3)	A NOIE that has a long-term portfolio supply contract under paragraph (1)(d) of Section 7.4.1.1 shall no longer be eligible for allocation of PCRRs associated with these pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resources upon termination of the portfolio supply contract.  For the purposes of this subsection, termination shall have the same meaning as defined in paragraph (2) above.  Following termination of a portfolio supply contract(s) for a NOIE or group of NOIEs, the capacity entitlements remaining under the existing portfolio supply contract(s) shall continue to reflect the 2003 4-CP ratio share values, as described in paragraph (1)(d) of Section 7.4.1.1.  
(4)	A NOIE that has a long-term contract across the DC Tie with supply resources located outside the ERCOT Region pursuant to paragraph (1)(e) of Section 7.4.1.1 shall no longer be eligible for allocation of PCRRs upon termination of the relevant external supply contract(s).  For purposes of this Section 7.4.1.3.1, termination shall have the same meaning as defined in paragraph (2) above.  If the termination of the external supply contract(s) applies to less than 100% of the capacity entitlement, the remaining capacity entitlement shall continue to qualify for PCRRs for the MW amount under the portion of the external supply contract(s) that is not terminated, provided that the external supply contract(s) continues to meet all other PCRR eligibility requirements.  
(5)	A NOIE that has long-term contracts pursuant to paragraph (1)(b) of Section 7.4.1.1, portfolio supply contracts pursuant to paragraph (1)(d) of Section 7.4.1.1 or long-term contracts pursuant to paragraph (1)(e) of Section 7.4.1.1 that did not contain automatic renewal provisions (evergreen clauses) in the original contracts and were subsequently revised to extend the term of the relevant contracts after September 1, 1999, shall not be eligible for allocation of PCRRs upon expiration of the original terms of the contracts (i.e. the date the contract would have expired but for extension of the term pursuant to post-September 1, 1999 contract modifications).  Disqualification pursuant to this Section 7.4.1.3.1 applies to any type of term extension modifications after September 1, 1999, whether they are automatic renewal provisions (evergreen clauses) or other renewal and extension provisions. 
(6)	A NOIE shall no longer be eligible for allocation of PCRRs after it opts into competition, with the exception of South Texas Electric Cooperative Inc. (STEC).  STEC may be eligible for allocation of PCRRs for up to three years after the date it enters into competition.
7.4.1.3.2	Effect of PCRR Disqualification
(1)	Once a disqualifying event occurs under Section 7.4.1.3.1, PCRR Disqualifying Events, the PCRRs associated with the pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource shall be voided by ERCOT from the date of the disqualifying event.  Further, the NOIE will no longer be eligible for allocation of future PCRRs associated with the pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource. 
(2)	However, if a disqualifying event occurs during the effective term of the PCRRs, the NOIE who was allocated the PCRRs shall select one of the options below to address the remaining allocated PCRRs.
(a)	If the NOIE maintains PCRR-related CRRs in its CRR Account, then the CRRs associated with the PCRR allocation shall either:
(i)	Be voided by ERCOT at the time of the disqualifying event and ERCOT shall refund the NOIE the discounted purchase price of the CRR as soon as practicable; or
(ii)	Be retained by the NOIE and the NOIE pays ERCOT the price differential between the discounted CRR price and the full CRR Auction price in which the CRR was acquired. 
(b)	If the NOIE no longer maintains PCRR-related CRRs (sale, transfer, etc.), then the NOIE pays ERCOT the price differential between the discounted CRR price and the full CRR Auction price in which the CRR was acquired.
(c)	If the NOIE obtained PCRR-related CRRs through the Refund option (allocated at no charge), then ERCOT will void the CRRs at the time of the disqualifying event and no financial exchange is necessary.
7.4.2	PCRR Allocation and Nomination Terms and Conditions
7.4.2.1	PCRR Allocation and Nomination Amounts
(1)	PCRR allocations shall be limited to the Seasonal net max sustainable rating (MW) of eligible pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resources, but shall in no event exceed the net max sustainable rating (MW) of these pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resources as established by 2010 registration data.  If a Generation Resource is repowered by the addition of new equipment, the PCRR MW amount is limited to the original specific turbine/generator set(s) from the pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resource.  New or upgraded components that increase the capacity of pre-September 1, 1999 Generation Resources are not eligible for increased PCRR MW amounts.
(2)	PCRR nominations shall be based on forecasted peak Demand, subject to the relevant PCRR allocation MW capacity limit of the specific Generation Resources.    
(3)	The PCRR allocation amounts for individual NOIEs relative to multiple Generation Resources under a portfolio supply contract shall be based on the following:
(a)	If the portfolio supply contract specifically describes the NOIE capacity entitlement from each specific Generation Resource, the PCRR allocation amount from each Generation Resource shall be based on the contractual rights.
(b)	If the portfolio supply contract does not specifically describe the NOIE capacity entitlement from each specific Generation Resource, the PCRR allocation amount shall be based on the NOIE’s 2003 4-Coincident Peak (4-CP) ratio share of each Generation Resource in the portfolio.  The 2003 4-CP ratio share shall be calculated as the 4-CP of each NOIE divided by the total 4-CP of all NOIEs who were supplied by that portfolio of Generation Resources in 2003.  Each NOIE’s capacity entitlement shall be its 2003 4-CP ratio share multiplied by the net max sustainable rating from the 2010 registration data for each PCRR eligible Generation Resource in the portfolio.
(4)	If a NOIE serves Load in more than one Load Zone, it shall nominate PCRRs to each Load Zone in an amount equal to the explicit contractual rights to each Load Zone, if any, or in proportion to the peak Load served in each relevant Load Zone, based on the aggregated monthly Load data from the corresponding prior 12 months.
7.4.2.2	PCRR Allocations and Nominations
(1)	ERCOT shall allocate CRRs under the following terms and conditions:
(a)	ERCOT shall conduct studies to evaluate whether the nominated PCRRs comply with feasibility constraints using the simultaneous feasibility test described in Section 7.5.5.4, Simultaneous Feasibility Test.  A PCRR nomination is a request for one-month strips of a NOIE-specified CRR type for amounts and blocks specified by the NOIE for each month of the PCRR Nomination Year as described in paragraph (c) below.  The Simultaneous Feasibility Test (SFT) evaluation to determine the feasible PCRR allocation amount for each month being evaluated uses 100% of that month’s expected network topology, which may result in different amounts allocated in different months.  If the SFT evaluation indicates that the nominated PCRR amounts are not feasible, then ERCOT shall proportionately reduce the requested PCRRs by their Impact Ratio on violated constraints.  The “Impact Ratio” is the amount of a particular PCRR’s impact divided by the total impact of all PCRRs in the same direction on a violated constraint.  The price that a NOIE must pay for an allocated PCRR is based on the corresponding CRR clearing price in the CRR First Offering.  The invoicing and payment for a PCRR allocated according to the process in this paragraph follows the same process and timeline as the invoicing and payment of CRR bids cleared in the CRR First Offering.  
(b)	ERCOT shall allocate all PCRRs in quantities truncated to the nearest tenth MW (0.1 MW).
(c)	Each eligible NOIE may nominate and ERCOT shall allocate to that NOIE as so nominated, subject to the limitation of paragraph (a) above, PCRRs up to 100% of the amount allowed pursuant to Section 7.4.2.1, PCRR Allocation and Nomination Amounts, for each eligible Resource, except as noted below in paragraph (d).  Prior to the first CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence held in any given calendar year, the NOIE must nominate PCRRs for each month of the PCRR Nomination Year.  Nominations must be received at ERCOT no later than 30 Business Days prior to the commencement of the CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence.  ERCOT shall allocate PCRRs to the NOIE no later than 25 Business Days prior to the CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence.  There shall not be any PCRR nomination process leading up to the second CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence (if any) in a calendar year. 
(d)	Prior to each CRR Monthly Auction, if there existed any PCRR nominations for the month being auctioned that ERCOT determined were not feasible at the time of the CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence in which they were originally considered, resulting in proportionally reduced PCRR allocations, then ERCOT shall re-evaluate the full nomination and allocate additional PCRRs, if feasible, up to the original nomination amount.  The price that a NOIE must pay for a PCRR allocated by the process in this paragraph is based on the corresponding CRR clearing price in the CRR Monthly Auction according to the pricing methodology in item (h) below, and the invoicing and payment for such a PCRR follows the same process and timeline as the invoicing and payment of CRR bids cleared in the CRR Monthly Auction.
(e)	A NOIE must designate whether to accept the refund option or the capacity option for its eligible non-solid fuel and non-combined-cycle Resources before the allocation of PCRRs.  The designated option (refund or capacity) will be the same for every month of the allocation year for that Resource.  A NOIE cannot designate a combination of both options for the same Resource in a given allocation year.  These options are described in items (i) and (ii) below.  NOIEs, or a group of NOIEs linked by common pre-1999 power supply arrangements, which had a 2003 NOIE peak Load in excess of 2,300 MW must use the capacity option (ii) for their eligible non-solid-fuel and non-combined-cycle Resources.  NOIEs that receive PCRRs representing gas steam Resources, hydro, wind, simple cycle or other similar Resources across high voltage DC Ties must use the capacity option (ii) for those eligible non-solid-fuel and non-combined-cycle Resources:
(i)	Refund option – The eligible NOIE may nominate up to 100% of the lesser of the net unit capacity or contractual amount for those Resource amounts allowed pursuant to Section 7.4.2.1.  The eligible NOIE shall refund to ERCOT any congestion revenues received above those congestion revenues flowing to the NOIE for its Output Schedule of the Resource at the PCRR source.  PCRR settlement will reflect the MW value of the Output Schedule of the Resource at the PCRR source, regardless of what MW value of actual output occurred during that interval if that change in output is in response to Dispatch Instructions.  The refund for any Settlement Interval is equal to the difference between the PCRR MW amount and the time-weighted average of the Output Schedules of the Resource at the PCRR source multiplied by the value of that PCRR.  PCRRs allocated under the refund option are not transferable and may only be used by the NOIE to which they are allocated. 
(ii)	Capacity option – The eligible NOIE may nominate up to 100% of the lesser of the net unit capacity or contractual amount for those Resource amounts allowed pursuant to Section 7.4.2.1 at a capacity factor no greater than 40% over each calendar year.  ERCOT shall allocate PCRRs in accordance with the NOIE nominations subject to the SFT.
(A)	During the nomination process, the NOIE must nominate the months (designating CRR amounts as defined by the criteria specified in item (5) of Section 7.3, Types of Congestion Revenue Rights to Be Auctioned) for which it will use its PCRRs (i.e., the NOIE may shape the PCRRs representing up to 100% of the capacity for each Resource at a capacity factor no greater than 40% over each calendar year). 
(B)	If a Resource eligible for PCRRs is shut down due to a Force Majeure Event, then, to the extent feasible, the NOIE may reallocate its PCRRs across its PCRR-eligible facilities before the CRR Monthly Auction.  This change is effective no later than the date of the CRR Monthly Auction, and the redesignation may be requested for each CRR Monthly Auction during the Force Majeure Event.  Any price difference in the reconfigured rights must be paid by (or paid to) the NOIE.
(f)	The CRR type, either Point-to-Point (PTP) Option, PTP Obligation, or a combination, must be specified by the eligible NOIE before the PCRR allocation and is binding for purchase.  Once the allocation process is complete, the eligible NOIE may not change the CRR type. 
(g)	After the allocation process, and the subsequent applicable CRR Auction, PCRRs other than those described in item (iii) below must be priced as a percentage of the applicable CRR Auction clearing price for the applicable CRR, as follows:
(i)	PTP Option PCRRs:
(A)	Nuclear, coal, lignite or combined-cycle Resources: 10% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing prices;
(B)	Gas steam Resources: 15% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing prices; or
(C)	Hydro, wind, simple cycle, or other Resources not included in (A) or (B): 20% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing prices.
(ii)	PTP Obligation PCRRs:
(A)	Nuclear, coal, lignite or combined-cycle Resources: 5% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing price if it is positive; 100% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing price if it is negative;
(B)	Gas steam Resources: 7.5% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing price if such price is positive; 100% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing price if it is negative; or
(C)	Hydro, wind, simple cycle, or other Resources not included in (A) or (B): 10% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing prices if it is positive; 100% of the applicable CRR Auction clearing prices if it is negative.
(iii)	For a NOIE that has chosen the refund option, the allocated number of PCRRs for Resources other than solid-fuel and combined-cycle Resources are provided at no charge.
(h)	PCRRs shall not be able to be bilaterally traded through ERCOT systems prior to the completion of the CRR Auction used to determine their value.
7.5	CRR Auctions
7.5.1	Nature and Timing
(1)	The Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction auctions the available network capacity of the ERCOT transmission system not allocated as described in Section 7.4, Preassigned Congestion Revenue Rights Overview, or sold in a previous auction.  The CRR Auction also allows CRR Owners an opportunity to offer for sale CRRs that they hold.  Each CRR Auction allows for the purchase of CRR products as described in paragraph (5) of Section 7.3, Types of Congestion Revenue Rights to Be Auctioned, in strips of one or more consecutive months and allows for the reconfiguration of all CRR blocks that were previously awarded for the months covered by that CRR Auction.
(2)	The CRR Network Model must be based on, but is not the same as, the Network Operations Model.  For the purposes of CRR Network Model construction for a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, ERCOT may, at its sole discretion, utilize the same or similar CRR Network Model inputs for multiple consecutive months.  The CRR Network Model must, to the extent practicable, include the same topology, contingencies, and operating procedures as used in the Network Operations Model as reasonably expected to be in place for each month.  The expected network topology used in the CRR Network Model for any month or set of months must include all Outages from the Outage Scheduler and identified by ERCOT as expected to have a significant impact upon transfer capability during that time.  These Outages included in the CRR Network Model shall be posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area consistent with model posting requirements by ERCOT with accompanying cause and duration information, as indicated in the Outage Scheduler.  Transmission system upgrades and changes must be accounted for in the CRR Network Model for CRR Auctions held after the month in which the element is placed into service.  
(a)	ERCOT shall use Dynamic Ratings in the CRR Network Model as required under Section 3.10.8, Dynamic Ratings.
(b)	The CRR Network Model must use the peak Load conditions of the month or set of months being modeled. 
(c)	ERCOT’s criteria for determining if an Outage should be in the CRR Network Model shall be in accordance with these Protocols and described in the Operating Guides.
(3)	ERCOT shall model bids and offers into the CRR Auction as flows based on the MW offer and defined source and sink.  When the Simultaneous Feasibility Test (SFT) is run, the model must weight the power flow buses and Hub Buses included in a Hub or Load Zone appropriately to determine the system impacts of the CRRs.
(a)	To distribute injections and withdrawals to buses within a Hub, ERCOT shall use distribution factors specified in Section 3.5.2, Hub Definitions.
(b)	To distribute injections and withdrawals to power flow buses in Load Zones, ERCOT shall use the Load-weighted distribution factors for On-Peak Hours in each Load Zone.  For a CRR Monthly Auction, ERCOT shall derive CRR Auction Load distribution factors with the set of Load distribution factors constructed in accordance with the ERCOT Load distribution factor methodology specified in paragraph (5) of Section 4.5.1, DAM Clearing Process, for use in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM).  For a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, ERCOT shall derive CRR Auction Load distribution factors from the corresponding planning model or with the set of Load distribution factors constructed in accordance with the ERCOT Load distribution factor methodology specified in paragraph (5) of Section 4.5.1, for use in the DAM.  ERCOT shall notify the market as to which method was used for each CRR Network Model in a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence in the corresponding auction notice.  ERCOT shall post the CRR Auction Load distribution factors as part of the CRR Network Model pre-auction posting.  Private Use Network net Load will be redacted from this posting. 
[NPRR1004:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	To distribute injections and withdrawals to power flow buses in Load Zones, ERCOT shall use the Load-weighted distribution factors for On-Peak Hours in each Load Zone.  For CRR Auctions and allocations, ERCOT shall derive Load distribution factors with the set of Load distribution factors constructed in accordance with the ERCOT Load distribution factor methodology specified in paragraph (c) of Section 3.12, Load Forecasting.  ERCOT shall post the CRR Auction Load distribution factors as part of the CRR Network Model pre-auction posting.  Private Use Network net Load will be redacted from this posting. 
(4)	ERCOT shall conduct CRR Auctions as follows:
(a)	The CRR Monthly Auction, held once per calendar month, shall include the sale of one-month terms of Point-to-Point (PTP) Options and PTP Obligations for the month immediately following the month during which the CRR bid submission window closes.
(b)	Twice per year, a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence shall be held, selling PTP Options and PTP Obligations, subject to the following constraints:
(i)	Each CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence shall consist of six successive CRR Auctions, each of which offers for sale CRRs spanning a term of six consecutive calendar months (either January through June, or July through December).  In each such CRR Auction, CRRs shall be offered in one-month strips or in strips of up to six consecutive months within the term covered by the auction.
(ii)	The CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence shall operate in chronological order, first providing a CRR Auction covering the next six-month (January through June, or July through December) period that has not yet commenced, and then five successive CRR Auctions for the five six-month periods thereafter.
(c)	No later than April 1 of each calendar year, ERCOT shall publish an update to the CRR activity calendar on the ERCOT website, with the following requirements:
(i)	The calendar shall include activity dates for all CRR Monthly Auctions, all CRR Auctions that are part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, and all Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Right (PCRR) annual allocations for the remainder of the current calendar year and for the two subsequent calendar years. 
(ii)	Any posted date on the CRR activity calendar shall only be modified if ERCOT determines that the successful execution of the auction would be jeopardized without such modification.  If a delay in completion of a CRR Auction that is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence results in a condition whereby an overlap of credit posting requirements for consecutive CRR Auctions within that sequence would occur, subsequent CRR Auctions within the sequence shall be delayed by the minimum amount of time required to relieve such overlap.  For any changes to the posted auction activity dates, ERCOT will send a Market Notice to provide the new date(s) and to explain the need for the change.
(iii)	The CRR activity calendar must be approved by the Wholesale Market Subcommittee (WMS) prior to the annual posting.
(5)	For each CRR Auction, the CRR Auction Capacity shall be defined as follows:
(a)	For the CRR Monthly Auction, 90%.
(b)	For any CRR Auction that is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, 70%, 55%, 40%, 30%, 20%, or 10% for the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth six-month windows sold in the sequence, respectively.
(6)	For any month covered by a CRR Auction that is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, ERCOT shall offer network capacity equal to:
(a)	The expected network topology for that month, scaled down to the CRR Auction Capacity percentage; minus 
(b)	All outstanding CRRs that were previously allocated for the month, scaled down to the CRR Auction Capacity percentage; minus 
(c)	All outstanding CRRs that were previously awarded for the month in any previous CRR Auction.
(7)	For the CRR Monthly Auction, ERCOT shall offer network capacity equal to the difference between: 
(a)	The expected transmission network topology in the CRR Network Model of the month for which the CRRs are effective scaled down to the CRR Auction Capacity percentage; and
(b)	All outstanding CRRs that were previously awarded or allocated for the month.
7.5.2	CRR Auction Offers and Bids
(1)	To submit bids or offers into a CRR Auction, an Entity must become a CRR Account Holder and satisfy financial assurance criteria required to participate, under Section 16.8, Registration and Qualification of Congestion Revenue Rights Account Holders.
(2)	In order to enforce a volume limitation on the number of market transactions (bids and offers) submitted into the CRR Auction, ERCOT shall evaluate the maximum number of transactions which are available prior to the auction, and evenly divide the limit across the CRR Account Holders eligible to submit bids or offers according to paragraph (1) above.  This limit shall be designated as the preliminary allocated CRR transaction limit.  A CRR Auction Notice will be provided to all CRR Account Holders prior to each auction.  The CRR Auction Notice will include the following ERCOT determined limitations for each CRR Monthly Auction and each Long-Term Auction Sequence: the preliminary allocated CRR transaction limit; the maximum overall transaction limits; time-of-use transaction limits; and per-CRR Account Holder transaction limits.
(a)	Prior to executing the CRR Auction but after the transaction submission window is closed, ERCOT shall determine which of the CRR Account Holders are Participating CRR Account Holders for that CRR Auction.  ERCOT shall then calculate a final allocated CRR transaction limit by evenly dividing the number of available transactions across the Participating CRR Account Holders.
(b)	If the total number of transactions submitted by all Participating CRR Account Holders into the CRR Auction does not exceed the maximum number of transactions available prior to the auction, then the final allocated CRR transaction limit will not apply and all transactions will be accepted.
(c)	Within one hour after the close of each CRR Auction, ERCOT shall notify all CRR Account Holders of the total number of transactions submitted by all Participating CRR Account Holders and whether or not a transaction adjustment period is necessary.  ERCOT may determine that a transaction adjustment period is not necessary if the total number of transactions submitted by all Participating CRR Account Holders does not exceed the number of transactions that can be processed by the CRR Auction system.
(d)	If ERCOT announces a transaction adjustment period, ERCOT shall notify all CRR Account Holders of the final allocated transaction limit and reject all transactions submitted by each Participating CRR Account Holder whose sum total of transactions submitted to the affected CRR Auction exceeds the final allocated transaction limit.  Each Participating CRR Account Holder may then adjust their transactions while respecting the final allocated CRR transaction limitation for the affected CRR Auction within one Business Day.  ERCOT will then execute the CRR Auction using the updated set of transactions as revised by Market Participants.
(e)	Each Counter-Party is limited to a total of three CRR Account Holders. 
(f)	ERCOT shall determine a charge for each PTP Option bid awarded in each CRR Auction as described in Section 7.7, Point-to-Point (PTP) Option Award Charge.
[NPRR936:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	In order to enforce a volume limitation on the number of market transactions (bids and offers) submitted into the CRR Auction, ERCOT shall evaluate the maximum number of transactions which are available prior to the auction, and evenly divide the limit across the Counter-Parties that are associated with CRR Account Holders eligible to submit bids or offers according to paragraph (1) above.  This limit shall be designated as the preliminary allocated CRR transaction limit.  A CRR Auction Notice will be provided to all CRR Account Holders prior to each auction.  The CRR Auction Notice will include the following ERCOT determined limitations for each CRR Monthly Auction and each Long-Term Auction Sequence: the preliminary allocated CRR transaction limit; the maximum overall transaction limits; time-of-use transaction limits; and per-CRR Account Holder transaction limits.
(a)	Prior to executing the CRR Auction but after the transaction submission window is closed, ERCOT shall determine which of the Counter-Parties are associated with Participating CRR Account Holders for that CRR Auction.  ERCOT shall then calculate a final allocated CRR transaction limit by evenly dividing the number of available transactions across the Counter-Parties associated with Participating CRR Account Holders.
(b)	If the total number of transactions submitted by all Participating CRR Account Holders into the CRR Auction does not exceed the maximum number of transactions available prior to the auction, then the final allocated CRR transaction limit will not apply and all transactions will be accepted.
(c)	Within one hour after the close of each CRR Auction, ERCOT shall notify all CRR Account Holders of the total number of transactions submitted by all Participating CRR Account Holders and whether or not a transaction adjustment period is necessary.  ERCOT may determine that a transaction adjustment period is not necessary if the total number of transactions submitted by all Participating CRR Account Holders does not exceed the number of transactions that can be processed by the CRR Auction system. 
(d)	If ERCOT announces a transaction adjustment period, ERCOT shall notify all CRR Account Holders of the final allocated transaction limit and reject all transactions submitted by each Participating CRR Account Holder associated with a Counter-Party whose sum total of transactions submitted to the affected CRR Auction exceeds the final allocated transaction limit.  Each Participating CRR Account Holder may then adjust their transactions while respecting the final allocated CRR transaction limitation for the affected CRR Auction within one Business Day.  ERCOT will then execute the CRR Auction using the updated set of transactions as revised by Market Participants.
(e)	ERCOT shall determine a charge for each PTP Option bid awarded in each CRR Auction as described in Section 7.7, Point-to-Point (PTP) Option Award Charge.
7.5.2.1	CRR Auction Offer Criteria
(1)	A CRR Auction Offer indicates a willingness to sell CRRs at the auction clearing price, if it equals or exceeds the Minimum Reservation Price.  It must be submitted by a Participating CRR Account Holder and must include the following: 
(a)	The short name of the Participating CRR Account Holder;
(b)	The unique identifier for each CRR being offered, which must include the single type of CRR being offered;
(c)	The source Settlement Point and the sink Settlement Point for the block of CRRs being offered;
(d)	The month, or strip of consecutive months, for which the block of CRRs is being offered, including time-of-use designation except that a 7x24 offer may not be designated;
(e)	The quantity of CRRs in MW, which must be the same for each hour within the block, for which the Minimum Reservation Price is effective; and
(f)	A dollars per CRR (i.e. dollars per MW per hour) for the Minimum Reservation Price.
(2)	The Participating CRR Account Holder may submit a self-imposed credit limit for the CRR Monthly Auction or for each time-of-use in a CRR Auction that is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, if desired.
(3)	A Participating CRR Account Holder can only offer to sell one-month or multi-month strips of CRRs for which it is the CRR Owner of record at the time of the offer.  Multi-month CRR offers must consist of consecutive months that are within the period of the relevant CRR Auction and can only be submitted as part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence.
(4)	A CRR offer for a specified MW quantity of CRRs constitutes an offer to sell a quantity of CRRs equal to or less than the specified quantity.  A CRR offer may not specify a minimum quantity of MW that the Participating CRR Account Holder wishes to sell.
7.5.2.2	CRR Auction Offer Validation
(1)	A valid CRR Auction Offer is a CRR Auction Offer that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 7.5.2.1, CRR Auction Offer Criteria. 
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any CRR Account Holder submitting a CRR Auction Offer to view its valid CRR Auction Offers.
(3)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify each CRR Account Holder of any of its CRR Auction Offers that are invalid.  The CRR Account Holder may correct and resubmit any invalid CRR Auction Offer, within the appropriate auction timeline.
7.5.2.3	CRR Auction Bid Criteria 
(1)	A CRR Auction Bid indicates a willingness to buy CRRs at the auction clearing price, if it is equal to or less than the Not-to-Exceed Price.  It must be submitted by a Participating CRR Account Holder and must include the following:
(a)	The short name of the Participating CRR Account Holder;
(b)	The single type of CRR being bid;
(c)	The source Settlement Point and the sink Settlement Point for the block of CRRs being bid;
(d)	The month or strip of consecutive months for which the block of CRRs is being bid, including time-of-use designation, which may include a 7x24 block in a CRR Monthly Auction but not in a CRR Auction held as part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence;
(e)	The quantity of CRRs in MW, which must be the same for each hour within the block, for which the Not-to-Exceed Price is effective; and
(f)	A dollars per CRR (i.e. dollars per MW per hour) for the Not-to-Exceed Price.
(2)	The Participating CRR Account Holder may submit a self-imposed credit limit for the CRR Monthly Auction or for each time-of-use in a CRR Auction that is part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, if desired. 
(3)	A bid to buy a PTP Option cannot specify a non-positive Not-to-Exceed Price less than the Minimum PTP Option Bid Price.  
(4)	A bid to buy a PTP Obligation can specify a negative Not-to-Exceed Price.
(5)	A CRR bid for a specified MW quantity of CRRs constitutes a bid to buy a quantity of CRRs equal to or less than the specified quantity.  A CRR bid may not specify a minimum quantity of MW that the Participating CRR Account Holder wishes to buy.
(6)	A CRR bid may not contain a source Settlement Point and a sink Settlement Point that are Electrically Similar Settlement Points, nor may CRR bids be submitted by any combination of Participating CRR Account Holders within the same Counter-Party to create the net effect of a single PTP Obligation bid containing a source Settlement Point and a sink Settlement Point that are Electrically Similar Settlement Points.
7.5.2.4	CRR Auction Bid Validation
(1)	A valid CRR Auction Bid is a CRR Auction Bid that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 7.5.2.3, CRR Auction Bid Criteria. 
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any CRR Account Holder submitting a CRR Auction Bid to view its valid CRR Auction Bids.
(3)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify each CRR Account Holder of any of its CRR Auction Bids that are invalid.  The CRR Account Holder may correct and resubmit any invalid CRR Auction Bid, if within the appropriate auction timeline.
7.5.3	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall:
(a)	Manage the qualification and registration of eligible CRR Account Holders;
(b)	Post calendar of CRR Auctions;
(c)	Initiate, direct, and oversee the CRR Auction;
(d)	Post CRR Auction results;
(e)	Maintain a record of the CRRs;
(f)	Provide a mechanism to record CRR bilateral transactions;
(g)	Determine CRR Auction Settlement and distribute auction revenues;
(h)	Keep, under the ERCOT data retention policy, all information and tools necessary to reproduce CRR calculations; and
(i)	Post CRR Network Model of the effective month of the auction on the MIS Secure Area, before each CRR Auction:
(i)	For the CRR Monthly Auction, the model shall be posted no later than ten Business Days before the auction.  
(ii)	For any CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, the models shall be posted no later than 20 Business Days before the sequence commences.    
(2)	ERCOT shall use the CRR Network Model as defined in Section 3.10.3, CRR Network Model. 
(3)	ERCOT shall develop and maintain a CRR guide to help Market Participants with the CRR program.
(4)	Before each auction, ERCOT shall establish a credit limit under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, that is imposed in the CRR Auction.
(5)	Five Business Days prior to the credit lock for each CRR Auction, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the credit related path-specific DAM-based adders and the historical CRR Auction clearing prices as applicable in support of the credit adders defined in Section 7.5.5.3, Auction Process, for the existing CRR Inventory.
7.5.3.1	Data Transparency
(1)	Following each CRR Auction, ERCOT shall record and make available to each CRR Account Holder on the MIS Certified Area the following information for each CRR awarded in, sold in, or allocated before, the CRR Auction to the specific CRR Account Holder:
(a)	Unique identifier of each CRR;  
(b)	Type of CRR (PTP Option, PTP Obligation, PTP Option with Refund, or PTP Obligation with Refund);
(c)	Clearing price and, if applicable, the PCRR pricing factor of each CRR; 
(d)	The source and sink of each CRR;
(e)	The date and time-of-use block for which the CRR is effective; and
(f)	Total MW of each PTP pair of CRR, awarded, sold or allocated. 
(2)	Following each CRR Auction, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the following information for all outstanding or sold CRRs following this auction:
(a)	PTP Options and PTP Options with Refund – the source and sink, and total MWs; 
(b)	PTP Obligations and PTP Obligations with Refund – the source and sink and total MWs;
(c)	The identities of the CRR Account Holders that sold, were awarded, or were allocated CRRs in or before the CRR Auction;
(d)	The clearing prices for each strip of CRR Auction bids and CRR Auction offers awarded in the CRR Auction; 
(e)	The identity and post contingency flow of each binding directional element based on the CRR Network Model used in the CRR Auction; 
(f)	All CRR Auction bids and CRR Auction offers, without identifying the name of the CRR Account Holder that submitted the bid or offer;
(g)	The clearing prices for each strip of CRRs bid or offered in the CRR Auction;
(h)	The Shadow Prices for each Settlement Point in the CRR Auction; and
(i)	The clearing prices for all outstanding CRRs that were previously awarded or allocated for the month(s) in the CRR Auction.
(3)	Following a one-time auction of CRRs pursuant to Section 16.11.6.1.4, Repossession of CRRs by ERCOT, or Section 16.11.6.1.5, Declaration of Forfeit of CRRs, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the following information for all CRRs sold in the auction: 
(a)	PTP Options – the source and sink, total MWs, and date and time-of-use block for which the CRR is effective; 
(b)	PTP Obligations – the source and sink, total MWs, and date and time-of-use block for which the CRR is effective; and
(c)	The identity of the CRR Account Holder that was awarded CRRs in the one-time CRR Auction.
[NPRR1023:  Delete paragraph (3) above upon system implementation.]
7.5.3.2	Auction Notices
(1)	Not less than 20 days before each CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence and not less than ten days before each CRR Monthly Auction, ERCOT shall post the following to the ERCOT website:
(a)	For the CRR Auction, number and type (PTP Options or PTP Obligations) of CRRs previously awarded or allocated for each appropriate month, including the source and sink for each such CRR;
(b)	Deadline for CRR Account Holders to satisfy financial requirements to participate in the auction;
(c)	Specifications for the equipment and interfaces necessary to participate in the CRR Auction;
(d)	Date and time by which CRR Auction bids and CRR Auction offers in the CRR Auction must be submitted;
(e)	Bid and offer format;
(f)	Minimum PTP Option Bid Price;
(g)	The preliminary allocated CRR transaction limit as defined in paragraph (2) of Section 7.5.2, CRR Auction Offers and Bids; and
(h)	Any other relevant information of commercial significance to CRR Account Holders, including a list of Electrically Similar Settlement Points.
7.5.4	CRR Account Holder Responsibilities
(1)	Participating CRR Account Holders may submit CRR Auction Bids and CRR Auction Offers. 
(2)	Each CRR Account Holder must maintain adequate credit for its CRR holdings, and CRR Auction participation requirements, as described in Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants.
7.5.5	Auction Clearing Methodology
7.5.5.1	Creditworthiness
(1)	The CRR Auction system prevents a CRR Account Holder from being awarded bids and offers that exceed the lesser of the CRR Account Holder’s self-imposed credit limit or the credit limit as prescribed in Section 16.11.4.6.1, Credit Requirements for CRR Auction Participation.   
7.5.5.2	Disclosure of CRR Ownership
(1)	ERCOT shall post monthly, by the fifth Business Day of the month, on the ERCOT website CRR ownership of record information for each source and sink pair as follows: 
(a)	The identities of the CRR Account Holders;
(b)	Type of CRR held by that account holder; and
(c)	Total MWs held by that account holder.  
7.5.5.3	Auction Process
(1)	The CRR Auction must be a single-round, simultaneous auction for selling the CRRs available for all auction products.  ERCOT shall enter into the CRR Auction system a credit limit for each Counter-Party that has at least one CRR Account Holder.  A Counter-Party’s CRR Auction credit limit is equal to the lesser of the credit limit as determined in Section 16.11.4.6.1, Credit Requirements for CRR Auction Participation, or, if provided, the Counter-Party’s self-imposed CRR Auction credit limit for the CRR Monthly Auction or for a time-of-use within a CRR Auction held as part of a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence.  
(2)	Prior to the CRR Auction, ERCOT will conduct a two-part pre-auction screening process. First, if the Counter-Party’s CRR Auction credit limit is greater than that Counter-Party’s credit exposure as defined below using the CRR bid volumes rather than awarded volumes, then the Counter-Party’s CRR Auction credit limit will be ignored as the CRR Auction is solved.  Second, for each CRR Account Holder of a Counter-Party, if the CRR Account Holder’s self-imposed credit limit is greater than that CRR Account Holder’s credit exposure as defined below, then the CRR Account Holder’s self-imposed credit limit will be ignored as the CRR Auction is solved. 
	The calculated exposure for the pre-auction screening for each CRR Account Holder is the sum of the credit exposure for PTP Obligation bids, PTP Obligation offers, and PTP Option bids for that CRR Account Holder.  The calculated exposure for the pre-auction screening for each Counter-Party is the sum of the credit exposure for PTP Obligation bids, PTP Obligation offers, and PTP Option bids for that Counter-Party.  PTP Option offers have zero credit exposure.  Separately, for PTP Obligation bids, PTP Obligation offers, and PTP Option bids, for each source/sink Settlement Point combination, the credit exposure will use the bid price and MW quantity that produces the maximum credit exposure that could result from the CRR Auction for that source/sink Settlement Point combination. 
(3)	The credit constraint for each Counter-Party is based on the following calculation:
ACR b 		= 	AOBLCR b  + AOPTCR b  - AOBLCRO b
Where:	
AOBLCR b = 	∑m ∑h ∑j, k [(BOBLMW m, h,(j, k), b * (Max(0, BPOBL m, h,(j, k), b) – Min(0,A ci99, m, h,(j, k), b, EACP m, h,(j, k) )))] 
AOPTCR b = 	∑m ∑h ∑j, k [(BOPTMW m, h,(j, k), b * BPOPT m, h,(j, k), b)]
AOBLCRO b = 	∑m ∑h ∑j, k (OOBLMW m, h,(j, k), b * Min(0, OPOBL m, h,(j, k), b))  
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
ACR b	$	Auction Credit Requirement—The auction credit requirement for a Counter-Party b.
AOBLCR b	$	Auction PTP Obligation Credit Requirement—The auction credit requirement for all PTP Obligation bids submitted by a Counter-Party b for all Operating Days. 
BOBLMW m, h, (j, k), b	MW	Awarded Bid PTP Obligation—The awarded bid PTP Obligation with the source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m submitted by a Counter-Party b.
BPOBL m, h, (j, k), b	$/MW per hour	Bid Price for PTP Obligation—Bid Price for PTP Obligation with the source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m submitted by a Counter-Party b. 
A ci 99, m, h, (j, k), b	$/MW per hour	Path-Specific DAM-Based Adder—The path-specific DAM-based adder with the source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m submitted by a Counter-Party b; calculated as 99th percentile of the average rolling consecutive DAM settled price for the reference CRR source/sink over a period that represents a month for each product type (18 days for 5*16, 8 days for 2*16, 28 days for 7*8).  The look-back period for DAM settled prices shall be the lesser of Nodal Market go-live to current time and current time minus three years.  If historical Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices (DASPPs) are not available for a Settlement Point for one or more Operating Days, ERCOT will designate a proxy Settlement Point for this purpose, and the DASPPs of the proxy Settlement Point of corresponding Operating Days are used.
EACP m, h, (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Effective Auction Clearing Price—The auction clearing price with the source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m.
For each CRR PTP Obligation, this value is equal to the auction clearing price of an awarded CRR selected as follows: 
(a)	Awarded CRRs with the source j and sink k containing hour h and operating month m are selected from the set of unexpired awarded PTP Obligations.  If no awarded CRRs are found the EACP value is zero.
(b)	If (a) results in more than one awarded CRR, awarded CRRs with the most recent award date are selected.
(c)	If (b) results in more than one awarded CRR, then the awarded CRR with the lowest auction clearing price is selected.
AOBLCRO b	$	Auction PTP Obligation Credit Requirement for Offers—The auction credit requirement for all PTP Obligation offers submitted by a Counter-Party b for all Operating Days. 
OOBLMW m, h, (j, k), b	MW	Awarded Offer PTP Obligation—The awarded offer PTP Obligation with source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m submitted by a Counter-Party b.
OPOBL m, h, (j, k ), b	$/MW per hour	Offer Price for PTP Obligation—The offer price for PTP Obligation with the source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m submitted by a Counter-Party b.
AOPTCR b	$	Auction PTP Option Bid Credit Requirement—The auction credit requirement for all PTP Option bids submitted by a Counter-Party b.
BOPTMW m, h, (j, k),b	MW	Awarded Bid PTP Option—The awarded bid PTP Option with the source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m submitted by a Counter-Party b. 
BPOPT m, h, (j, k), b	$/MW per hour	Bid Price for PTP Option—The bid price for PTP Option with the source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m submitted by a Counter-Party b.
b	none	A Counter-Party.
m	none	An operating month.
h	none	An Operating Hour.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
ci99	none	99th percentile confidence interval.
(4)	ERCOT may review preliminary CRR Auction results to ensure that post auction collateral requirements are satisfied for all CRR Account Holders participating in the CRR Auction.  If it is practicable to rerun the applicable CRR Auction, and the post CRR Auction collateral requirements for a Counter-Party are not satisfied, ERCOT:
(a)	Shall promptly notify the Counter-Party of the amount by which its Financial Security must be increased and allow it until 1500 on the next Bank Business Day from the date on which ERCOT delivered Notification to increase the Financial Security.  
(b)	If sufficient Financial Security is not received by 1500 on the next Bank Business Day, ERCOT shall void all of the Counter-Party’s bids and offers in the CRR Auction and rerun the CRR Auction without that Counter-Party’s activity.
(c)	ERCOT shall award CRRs in quantities truncated to the nearest tenth MW (0.1 MW). 
(d)	The CRR clearing price is equal to the corresponding Shadow Price for that CRR product.
(e)	Except as noted in paragraph (f) below, when a CRR Account Holder is awarded CRRs as a result of a CRR Auction, the CRRs do not become the property of the winning CRR Account Holder, and the CRRs may not be placed in their CRR accounts, until the required CRR Invoice has been paid.
[NPRR1023:  Replace paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(e)	When a CRR Account Holder is awarded CRRs as a result of a CRR Auction, the CRRs do not become the property of the winning CRR Account Holder, and the CRRs may not be placed in their CRR accounts, until the required CRR Invoice has been paid.
(f)	Following a one-time auction of CRRs pursuant to Section 16.11.6.1.4, Repossession of CRRs by ERCOT, or Section 16.11.6.1.5, Declaration of Forfeit of CRRs, the CRRs may be placed in the account of the winning CRR Account Holder immediately upon determination of the winning bidder if the post-auction collateral requirement is satisfied and if ERCOT determines that the transfer is required to ensure the correctness of the inventory for any subsequent CRR Auction.  
[NPRR1023:  Delete paragraph (f) above upon system implementation.]
(5)	ERCOT shall use a linear programming auction engine model for each CRR Auction that evaluates all CRR Auction bids and CRR Auction offers submitted, and selects a combination of CRR Auction bids and CRR Auction offers that:
(a)	Makes the solution simultaneously feasible within the limits of the ERCOT network capability over the auction term; and
(b)	Maximizes the objective function, which is equal to the total economic value (as expressed in the CRR Auction bids) of the awarded CRR Auction bids, less the total economic cost (as expressed in CRR Auction offers) of the awarded CRR Auction offers, while observing all applicable constraints.
(6)	The CRR Network Model must, to the extent practicable, reflect the continuous and post-contingency system operating limits and operational procedures (i.e., Remedial Action Schemes (RASs), Automatic Mitigation Plans (AMPs) and Remedial Action Plans (RAPs)) in the Network Operations Model used by ERCOT during Real-Time operations, as discussed below in Section 7.5.5.4, Simultaneous Feasibility Test.
(7)	Once a CRR Auction is complete, ERCOT shall archive and keep the CRR Auction system and all models used to finalize the CRR Auction results under ERCOT’s data retention policy as that policy applies to data that may be needed to resolve requests for billing adjustments under applicable billing adjustment procedures.
(8)	Once a CRR Auction is complete, ERCOT will make available on the MIS Certified Area each active CRR Account Holder’s credit exposure calculated within the CRR Auction process (as defined in paragraph (3) above).
7.5.5.4	Simultaneous Feasibility Test
(1)	The Simultaneous Feasibility Test (SFT) is a market feasibility test that confirms that the transmission system can support the awarded set of CRRs during normal system conditions, assuming that the Network Operations Model updated with Real-Time network topology is the same as that modeled (for the CRR Auction), while observing all security constraints.    
(2)	The SFT uses a Direct Current (DC) power-flow model to model the effect of CRR Auction bids and offers on the expected system network topology during the auction term.  SFT is not a system reliability test and is not intended to model actual system operating conditions.  SFTs are run during the determination of the winning bids and offers for the CRR Auction.
(3)	Inputs to the SFT model include:
(a)	CRR bids and offers for the auction;
(b)	All previously awarded or allocated CRRs for each month;
(c)	Transmission line Outage schedules;
(d)	Expected configuration of Transmission Facilities, adjusted for oversold CRRs, as specified in paragraph (e) below;
(e)	Increased capacity of each element that has been oversold in prior CRR Auctions and CRR allocations to exactly match the amount of CRRs that have been sold or allocated on that element (this ensures the feasibility of the CRR Auction);
(f)	Thermal operating limits (including estimates for Dynamic Ratings) for transmission lines;
(i)	For a CRR Long-Term Auction Sequence, ERCOT shall use Dynamic Ratings based on a historical analysis of the maximum peak-hour temperatures for the previous ten years; and 
(ii)	For the CRR Monthly Auction, ERCOT shall use Dynamic Ratings for the maximum peak-hour temperature forecast for the month;  
(g)	Voltage and stability limits that are valid for the study period converted to thermal limits;
(h)	ERCOT Transmission Grid pre- and post-contingency ratings;
(i)	All Transmission Element contingencies expected to be used by ERCOT in Real-Time operations; and
(j)	RAPs, AMPs, and RASs.
7.5.6	CRR Auction Settlements
7.5.6.1	Payment of an Awarded CRR Auction Offer
(1)	ERCOT shall pay each CRR Account Holder of its PTP Obligation offers awarded in each CRR Auction.  The payment for each source and sink pair for a given Time of Use (TOU) period is calculated as follows:
OBLSAMT crrh, (j, k), a	=	(-1) * OBLPR (j, k), a * OBLS crrh, (j, k), a
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
OBLSAMT crrh, (j, k), a	$	PTP Obligation Sale Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The payment calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Obligation offers with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
OBLPR (j, k), a	$/MWh 	PTP Obligation Price per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The clearing price of a PTP Obligation with the source j and the sink k in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
OBLS crrh, (j, k), a	MW	PTP Obligation Sale per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The MW quantity that represents the total of CRR Account Holder crrh’s PTP Obligation offers associated with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hours of the TOU period.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
(2)	ERCOT shall pay each CRR Account Holder of its PTP Option offers awarded in each CRR Auction.  The payment for each source and sink pair for a given TOU period is calculated as follows:
OPTSAMT crrh, (j, k), a	=	(-1) * OPTPR (j, k), a * OPTS crrh, (j, k), a
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
OPTSAMT crrh, (j, k), a	$	PTP Option Sale Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair  per CRR Auction—The payment calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Option bids with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
OPTPR (j, k), a	$/MWh 	PTP Option Price per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The clearing price of a PTP Option with the source j and the sink k in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
OPTS crrh, (j, k), a	MW	PTP Option Sale per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The MW quantity that represents the total of CRR Account Holder crrh’s PTP Option offers with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hours of the TOU period.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
7.5.6.2	Charge of an Awarded CRR Auction Bid
(1)	ERCOT shall charge each CRR Account Holder of its PTP Obligation bids awarded in each CRR Auction.  The charge for each source and sink pair for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows:
OBLPAMT crrh, (j, k), a	=	OBLPR (j, k), a * OBLP crrh, (j, k), a
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
OBLPAMT crrh, (j, k), a	$	PTP Obligation Purchase Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Obligation bids with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
OBLPR (j, k), a	$/MWh 	PTP Obligation Price per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The clearing price of a PTP Obligation with the source j and the sink k in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
OBLP crrh, (j, k), a	MW	PTP Obligation Purchase per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The MW quantity that represents the total of CRR Account Holder crrh’s PTP Obligation bids associated with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hours of the TOU period.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
(2)	ERCOT shall charge each CRR Account Holder of its PTP Option bids awarded in each CRR Auction.  The charge for each source and sink pair for a given TOU period is calculated as follows:
OPTPAMT crrh, (j, k), a	=	OPTPR (j, k), a * OPTP crrh, (j, k), a
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
OPTPAMT crrh, (j, k), a	$	PTP Option Purchase Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Option bids with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
OPTPR (j, k), a	$/MWh 	PTP Option Price per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The clearing price of a PTP Option with the source j and the sink k in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
OPTP crrh, (j, k), a	MW	PTP Option Purchase per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The MW quantity that represents the total of CRR Account Holder crrh’s PTP Option bids associated with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hours of the TOU period.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
7.5.6.3	Charge of PCRRs Pertaining to a CRR Auction
(1)	For pre-assigned PTP Obligations allocated before each CRR Auction, ERCOT shall charge each CRR Account Holder.  The charge for each source and sink pair for a given TOU period is calculated as follows:
If OBLPR (j, k), a >0
PCRROBLAMT crrh, (j, k), a, tech =	PCRROBLF tech * OBLPR (j, k), a 
* PCRROBL crrh, (j, k), a, tech
Otherwise
PCRROBLAMT crrh, (j, k), a, tech =	OBLPR (j, k), a * PCRROBL crrh, (j, k), a, tech

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRROBLAMT crrh, (j, k), a, tech	$	PCRR PTP Obligation Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction by resource technology—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents its total PTP Obligations associated with the source j and the sink k allocated before CRR Auction a based on Resources of the technology tech, for the hour.
PCRROBLF tech		PCRR PTP Obligation pricing Factor per resource technology—The pricing factor of pre-allocated PTP Obligations based on Resources of the technology tech.  See item (1)(g)(ii) of Section 7.4.2.2, PCRR Allocations and Nominations.
OBLPR (j, k), a	$/MWh 	PTP Obligation Price per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The clearing price of a PTP Obligation with the source j and the sink k in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
PCRROBL crrh, (j, k), a, tech	MW	PCRR PTP Obligation per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair  per CRR Auction by resource technology—The MW quantity that represents the total of CRR Account Holder crrh’s PTP Obligations associated with the source j and the sink k allocated before CRR Auction a based on Resources of the technology tech, for the hours of the TOU period.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
tech	none	A Resource technology.  See item (1)(g) of Section 7.4.2.2.
(2)	For pre-assigned PTP Options allocated before each CRR Auction, ERCOT shall charge each CRR Account Holder.  The charge for each source and sink pair for a given TOU period is calculated as follows:
PCRROPTAMT crrh, (j, k), a, tech	=	PCRROPTF tech * OPTPR (j, k), a * 					PCRROPT crrh, (j, k), a, tech
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRROPTAMT crrh, (j, k), a, tech	$	PCRR PTP Option Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction by resource technology—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents its total PTP Options associated with the source j and the sink k allocated before CRR Auction a based on Resources of the technology tech, for the hour.
PCRROPTF tech		PCRR PTP Option pricing Factor per resource technology—The pricing factor of pre-allocated PTP Options based on Resources of the technology tech.  See item (1)(g)(i) of Section 7.4.2.2.
OPTPR (j, k), a	$/MWh 	PTP Option Price per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The clearing price of a PTP Option with the source j and the sink k in CRR Auction a, for the hour.
PCRROPT crrh, (j, k), a, tech	MW	PCRR PTP Option per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair  per CRR Auction by resource technology—The MW quantity that represents the total of CRR Account Holder crrh’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k allocated before CRR Auction a based on Resources of the technology tech, for the hours of the TOU period.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
tech	none	A Resource technology.  See item (1)(g) of Section 7.4.2.2.
7.5.6.4	CRR Auction Revenues
(1)	The revenue for a given month produced from CRRs that source and sink within the same 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zone (CMZ), cleared in each CRR Auction, is calculated as follows:
CRRZREV z, a	=	 (   OBLSAMTcrrh,(j,k),z,a,h +    OPTSAMTcrrh,(j,k),z,a,h + 	       OBLPAMT crrh,(j,k),z,a,h +    OPTPAMTcrrh,(j,k),z,a,h)
The above variables are defined as follows:

Variable	Unit	Definition
CRRZREV z, a	$	CRR Zonal Revenue per zone per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, cleared through CRR Auction Offers and CRR Auction Bids in CRR Auction a, for the month.
OBLSAMT crrh, (j, k), z, a, h	$	PTP Obligation Sale Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per zone per CRR Auction per hour—The payment calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Obligation offers awarded in CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k, both in CMZ z, for the hour h.
OPTSAMT crrh, (j, k), z, a, h	$	PTP Option Sale Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per zone per CRR Auction per hour—The payment calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Option bids awarded in CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k, both in CMZ z, for the hour h.
OBLPAMT crrh, (j, k), z, a, h	$	PTP Obligation Purchase Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Obligation offers awarded in CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k, both in CMZ z, for the hour h.
OPTPAMT crrh, (j, k), z, a, h	$	PTP Option Purchase Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per zone per CRR Auction per hour—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Option bids awarded in CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k, both in CMZ z, for the hour h.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
z	none	A 2003 ERCOT CMZ.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder that paid the invoice in full.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
h	none	An hour in the month.

(2)	The revenue for a given month produced from CRRs that source and sink in different 2003 ERCOT CMZs, cleared in each CRR Auction, is calculated as follows:
CRRNZREV a	=	 (   OBLSAMTcrrh,(j,k),a,h +    OPTSAMTcrrh,(j,k),a,h +                    OBLPAMT crrh,(j,k),a,h +    OPTPAMTcrrh,(j,k),a,h)
The above variables are defined as follows:

Variable	Unit	Definition
CRRNZREV a	$	CRR Non-Zonal Revenue—The revenue resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, cleared through CRR Auction Offers and CRR Auction Bids in CRR Auction a, for the month.
OBLSAMT crrh, (j, k), a, h	$	PTP Obligation Sale Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The payment calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Obligation offers awarded in CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k in different CMZs, for the hour h.
OPTSAMT crrh, (j, k), a, h	$	PTP Option Sale Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The payment calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Option bids awarded in CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k in different CMZs, for the hour h.
OBLPAMT crrh, (j, k), a, h	$	PTP Obligation Purchase Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Obligation offers awarded in CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k in different CMZs, for the hour h.
OPTPAMT crrh, (j, k), a, h	$	PTP Option Purchase Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents the total PTP Option bids awarded in CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k in different CMZs, for the hour h.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder that paid the invoice in full.
(j, k)	none	A pair of source and sink Settlement Points in different CMZs.
h	none	An hour in the month.

(3)	The revenue for a given month produced from PCRRs that source and sink within the same 2003 ERCOT CMZ, pertaining to each CRR Auction, is calculated as follows:
PCRRZREV z, a	=	 (    PCRROBLAMT crrh,(j,k),z,a,tech,h +     PCRROPTAMT crrh,(j,k),z,a,tech,h)
The above variables are defined as follows:

Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRRZREV z, a	$	PCRR Zonal Revenue per zone per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the PCRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, pertaining to CRR Auction a, for the month.
PCRROBLAMT crrh, (j, k), z, a, tech, h	$	PCRR PTP Obligation Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per zone per CRR Auction per resource technology per hour—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents its total PTP Obligations pertaining to CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k in CMZ z, based on Resources of the technology tech, for the hour h.
PCRROPTAMT crrh, (j, k), z, a, tech, h	$	PCRR PTP Option Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per zone per CRR Auction per resource technology per hour—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents its total PTP Options pertaining to CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k in CMZ z, based on Resources of the technology tech, for the hour h.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
z	none	A 2003 ERCOT CMZ.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder that paid the invoice in full.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
tech	none	A Resource technology.
h	none	An hour in the month.

(4)	The revenue for a given month produced from PCRRs that source and sink in different 2003 ERCOT CMZs, pertaining to each CRR Auction, is calculated as follows:
PCRRNZREV a	=	 (    PCRROBLAMT crrh,(j,k),a,tech,h +     PCRROPTAMT crrh,(j,k),a,tech,h)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
PCRRNZREV a	$	PCRR Non-Zonal Revenue per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the PCRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, pertaining to CRR Auction a, for the month.
PCRROBLAMT crrh, (j, k), a, tech, h	$	PCRR PTP Obligation Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per resource technology per hour—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents its total PTP Obligations pertaining to CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k in different CMZs, based on Resources of the technology tech, for the hour h.
PCRROPTAMT crrh, (j, k), a, tech, h	$	PCRR PTP Option Amount per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per resource technology per hour—The charge calculated for CRR Account Holder crrh of the MW quantity that represents its total PTP Options pertaining to CRR Auction a with the source j and the sink k in different CMZs, based on Resources of the technology tech, for the hour h.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder that paid the invoice in full.
(j, k)	none	A pair of source and sink Settlement Points in different CMZs.
tech	none	A Resource technology.
h	none	An hour in the month.

7.5.7	Method for Distributing CRR Auction Revenues
(1)	ERCOT shall determine, for each month, the CRR Monthly Revenues (CMRs).  The CMR is the sum of:
(a)	Monthly CRR revenue for that month; and
(b)	PCRR revenues.
(2)	ERCOT shall credit the net CRR Auction revenue (including PCRR revenue) produced from CRRs cleared in each CRR Auction that source from a Settlement Point located within a 2003 ERCOT CMZ and sink at a Settlement Point located within the same 2003 ERCOT CMZ to Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) in the 2003 ERCOT CMZ on a zonal Load Ratio Share (LRS) basis.  All other net CRR Auction revenues must be allocated to QSEs on an ERCOT-wide LRS basis.  For these allocation purposes, any Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) Load Zone is considered to be located entirely within the 2003 ERCOT CMZ that represented the largest Load for that NOIE or group of NOIEs in 2003.  
[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall credit the net CRR Auction revenue (including PCRR revenue) produced from CRRs cleared in each CRR Auction that source from a Settlement Point located within a 2003 ERCOT CMZ and sink at a Settlement Point located within the same 2003 ERCOT CMZ to Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) in the 2003 ERCOT CMZ on a zonal ratio share basis.  All other net CRR Auction revenues must be allocated to QSEs on an ERCOT-wide ratio share basis.  For these allocation purposes, any Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) Load Zone is considered to be located entirely within the 2003 ERCOT CMZ that represented the largest Load for that NOIE or group of NOIEs in 2003.
(3)	For initial distribution of CMRs, revenues shall be paid to each QSE based on that QSE’s LRS in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month.  
[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	For initial distribution of CMRs, revenues shall be paid to each QSE based on that QSE’s DC Tie ratio share for the month.  Remaining revenues shall be paid to each QSE based on that QSE’s ratio share, excluding DC Tie exports, in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month.
(4)	ERCOT shall true up the distribution of CMRs based on that QSE’s LRS in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month in accordance with paragraph (2) of Section 9.10, CRR Auction Revenue Distribution Invoices.
[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	ERCOT shall true up the distribution of CMRs, in accordance with paragraph (2) of Section 9.10, CRR Auction Revenue Distribution Invoices, based on that QSE’s DC Tie ratio share for the month.  Remaining revenues shall be paid to each QSE based on that QSE’s ratio share, excluding DC Tie exports, in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month.
(5)	The net CRR Auction revenue produced from CRRs cleared and paid for in each CRR Auction that source from a Settlement Point within a 2003 ERCOT CMZ and sink at a Settlement Point located within the same 2003 ERCOT CMZ shall be distributed on a zonal LRS basis.  The portion of the net monthly CRR Auction revenue to be distributed to each QSE with Load in that zone for a given month is calculated as follows:
LACMRZAMT z, q=	(-1) *  (CRRZREV z, a + PCRRZREV z, a) * MLRSZ z, q
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LACMRZAMT z, q	$	Load-Allocated CRR Monthly Revenue Zonal Amount per zone per QSE—The payment to QSE q of the revenues resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, for the month.
CRRZREV z, a	$	CRR Zonal Revenue per zone per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, cleared through CRR Auction Offers and CRR Auction Bids in CRR Auction a, for the month.
PCRRZREV z, a	$	PCRR Zonal Revenue per zone per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the PCRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, pertaining to CRR Auction a, for the month.
MLRSZ q, z	none	Monthly Load Ratio Share Zonal per QSE per zone—The LRS of QSE q for its Load in CMZ z, for the peak-Load 15-minute Settlement Interval in the month.
q	none	A QSE.
z	none	A 2003 ERCOT CMZ.
a	none	A CRR Auction.

[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	The net CRR Auction revenue produced from CRRs cleared and paid for in each CRR Auction that source from a Settlement Point within a 2003 ERCOT CMZ and sink at a Settlement Point located within the same 2003 ERCOT CMZ shall be distributed on a zonal ratio share basis.  The portion of the net monthly CRR Auction revenue to be distributed to each QSE with Load in that zone for a given month is calculated as follows:
LACMRZAMT z, q     =	(-1) * (CMRZDC z, q + CMRZNDC z, q)
Where:
CMRZNDC z, q    =  ( (CRRZREV z, a + PCRRZREV z, a) –  CMRZDC z, q) * MLRSZ z, q
CMRZDC z, q        =   (CRRZREV z, a + PCRRZREV z, a) * DCMLRSZ z, q
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LACMRZAMT z, q	$	Load-Allocated CRR Monthly Revenue Zonal Amount per zone per QSE—The sum payment to QSE q representing Loads and DC Tie exports of the revenues resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, for the month.
CMRZDC z, q	$	CRR Monthly Revenue Zonal Amount for DC Tie Exports per zone per QSE—The amount due to QSE q representing DC Tie exports of the revenues resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, for the month.
CMRZNDC z, q	$	CRR Monthly Revenue Zonal Amount for Non-DC Tie Loads per zone per QSE—The amount due to QSE q representing Loads (excluding DC Tie exports) of the revenues resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, for the month.
CRRZREV z, a	$	CRR Zonal Revenue per zone per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, cleared through CRR Auction Offers and CRR Auction Bids in CRR Auction a, for the month.
PCRRZREV z, a	$	PCRR Zonal Revenue per zone per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the PCRRs that source and sink in CMZ z, pertaining to CRR Auction a, for the month.
DCMLRSZ q, z	none	DC Tie Exports Monthly Load Ratio Share Zonal per QSE per zone—The ratio share calculated for QSE q with DC Tie exports in CMZ z, for the month.  See Section 6.6.2.8, QSE DC Tie Export Load Ratio Share by Congestion Management Zone for a Month.
MLRSZ q, z	none	Monthly Load Ratio Share Zonal per QSE per zone—The ratio share of QSE q for its Load excluding DC Tie exports in CMZ z, for the peak Load 15-minute Settlement Interval in the month. 
q	none	A QSE.
z	none	A 2003 ERCOT CMZ.
a	none	A CRR Auction.

(6)	The net CRR Auction revenue produced from CRRs cleared and paid for in each CRR Auction that do not source from a Settlement Point within a 2003 ERCOT CMZ and sink at a Settlement Point located within the same 2003 ERCOT CMZ shall be distributed on an ERCOT-wide LRS basis.  The portion of the net monthly CRR Auction Revenue Amount (from CRRs with paths that cross the 2003 ERCOT CMZ boundaries) to be distributed for a given month is calculated as follows:
LACMRNZAMT q	=	(-1) *  (CRRNZREV a + PCRRNZREV a) * MLRS q
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LACMRNZAMT q	$	Load-Allocated CRR Monthly Revenue Non-Zonal Amount per QSE—The payment to QSE q of the revenues resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, for the month.
CRRNZREV a	$	CRR Zonal Revenue per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, cleared through CRR Auction Offers and CRR Auction Bids in CRR Auction a, for the month.
PCRRNZREV a	$	PCRR Zonal Revenue per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the PCRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, pertaining to CRR Auction a, for the month.
MLRS q	none	Monthly Load Ratio Share per QSE—The LRS calculated for QSE q for the peak-Load 15-minute Settlement Interval in the month.  See Section 6.6.2.2, QSE Load Ratio Share for a 15-Minute Settlement Interval.
q	none	A QSE.
a	none	A CRR Auction.

[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	The net CRR Auction revenue produced from CRRs cleared and paid for in each CRR Auction that do not source from a Settlement Point within a 2003 ERCOT CMZ and sink at a Settlement Point located within the same 2003 ERCOT CMZ shall be distributed on an ERCOT-wide ratio share basis.  The portion of the net monthly CRR Auction Revenue Amount (from CRRs with paths that cross the 2003 ERCOT CMZ boundaries) to be distributed for a given month is calculated as follows:
LACMRNZAMT q       =	(-1) * (CMRNZDC q + CMRNZNDC q)
Where:
CMRNZNDC q  =  ( (CRRNZREV a + PCRRNZREV a) -  CMRNZDC q) * MLRS q
CMRNZDC q     =   (CRRNZREV a + PCRRNZREV a) * DCMLRS q 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LACMRNZAMT q	$	Load-Allocated CRR Monthly Revenue Non-Zonal Amount per QSE—The sum payment to QSE q representing Loads and DC Tie exports of the revenues resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, for the month.
CMRNZDC q	$	CRR Monthly Revenue Non-Zonal Amount for DC Tie Exports per QSE—The amount due to QSE q representing DC Tie exports of the revenues resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, for the month.
CMRNZNDC q	$	CRR Monthly Revenue Non-Zonal Amount for Non-DC Tie Loads per QSE—The amount due to QSE q representing Loads (excluding DC Tie exports) of the revenues resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, for the month.
CRRNZREV a	$	CRR Zonal Revenue per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the CRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, cleared through CRR Auction Offers and CRR Auction Bids in CRR Auction a, for the month.
PCRRNZREV a	$	PCRR Zonal Revenue per CRR Auction—The revenue resulted from the PCRRs that source and sink in different CMZs, pertaining to CRR Auction a, for the month.
DCMLRS q	none	DC Tie Monthly Load Ratio Share per QSE—The ratio share calculated for QSE q with DC Tie exports for the calendar month.  See Section 6.6.2.6, QSE DC Tie Export Load Ratio Share for a Month. 
MLRS q	none	Monthly Load Ratio Share per QSE —The ratio share of Loads excluding DC Tie exports for QSE q for the peak Load 15-minute Settlement Interval. 
q	none	A QSE.
a	none	A CRR Auction.

7.6	CRR Balancing Account 
(1)	In the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), if the congestion rent is equal to or greater than the net amounts due to all Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Owners for any Settlement Interval, then ERCOT shall pay the net amounts due to the CRR Owners and put any excess amount into the CRR Balancing Account (CRRBA). 
(2)	In the DAM, if the congestion rent is less than the net amounts due to all CRR Owners for any Settlement Interval, then ERCOT shall short-pay each CRR Owner on a prorated basis and shall keep track of how much each CRR Owner has been short-paid.  The proration must be calculated using only the amounts due to the CRR Owner for CRRs settled in both the DAM and Real-Time and not using amounts due to ERCOT for Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligations owned by the CRR Owner.
(3)	ERCOT shall pay any positive balance in the CRRBA to each short-paid CRR Owner, with the amount paid to each CRR Owner being the lesser of (a) a prorated amount based on the short-paid amount for that CRR Owner compared to the total short-paid amount, and (b) the short-paid amount for that CRR Owner.  Any remaining positive balance in the CRRBA will first be used to fund the CRRBA fund up to the fund cap, as described in Section 7.9.3.5, CRR Balancing Account Closure, and any surplus must be allocated to all Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) on the QSE’s Load Ratio Share (LRS) in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month. 
[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall pay any positive balance in the CRRBA to each short-paid CRR Owner, with the amount paid to each CRR Owner being the lesser of (a) a prorated amount based on the short-paid amount for that CRR Owner compared to the total short-paid amount, and (b) the short-paid amount for that CRR Owner.  Any remaining positive balance in the CRRBA will first be used to fund the CRRBA fund up to the fund cap, as described in Section 7.9.3.5, CRR Balancing Account Closure, and any surplus must be allocated to all Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) based on the QSE’s ratio shares for the month.
(4)	For initial distribution of the CRRBA, revenues shall be paid to each QSE based on that QSE’s LRS in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month.  
[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	For initial distribution of the CRRBA, revenues shall be paid to each QSE based on that QSE’s Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) monthly ratio share for the month.  Remaining revenues shall be paid to each QSE based on that QSE’s ratio share, excluding DC Tie exports, in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month.
(5)	ERCOT shall true up the distribution of CRRBA based on that QSE’s LRS in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month in accordance with paragraph (2) of Section 9.12, CRR Balancing Account Invoices.
[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	ERCOT shall true up the distribution of CRRBA, in accordance with paragraph (2) of Section 9.12, CRR Balancing Account Invoices, based on that QSE’s DC Tie monthly ratio share for the month.  Remaining revenues shall be paid to each QSE based on that QSE’s ratio share, excluding DC Tie exports, in the interval coincident with the ERCOT-wide peak 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month.
7.7	Point-to-Point (PTP) Option Award Charge
7.7.1	Determination of the PTP Option Award Charge
(1) 	ERCOT will calculate a Point-to-Point (PTP) Option Award Charge for each Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder for each PTP Option bid awarded where the clearing price for the PTP Option bid awarded is less than the Minimum PTP Option Bid Price.  
(2)	The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) shall review the current Minimum PTP Option Bid Price at least annually and may recommend to the ERCOT Board a change to this value by submitting a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR). 
(3)	ERCOT shall charge each CRR Account Holder for its PTP Option bids awarded in each CRR Auction as follows:
OPTAFAMT crrh, a	=	   (Max (0, OPTMBP - OPTPR (j, k), a, h, bp) * 
			OPTP crrh, (j, k), a, h, bp)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
OPTAFAMT crrh, a	$	PTP Option Award Charge Amount per CRR Account Holder per CRR Auction—The charge assessed to CRR Account Holder crrh for PTP Option awards awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour for which the clearing price is less than the defined Minimum PTP Option Bid Price.  For a multi-month CRR Auction, the charge shall be calculated for each month.
OPTMBP	$/MW per hour	Minimum PTP Option Bid Price—As defined in Section 2.1, Definitions.
OPTPR (j, k), a, h, bp 	$/MW per hour	PTP Option Price per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The clearing price of a PTP Option with the source j and the sink k in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, for the bid period bp.
OPTP crrh, (j, k), a, h, bp	MW	PTP Option Purchase per CRR Account Holder per source and sink pair per CRR Auction—The MW quantity that represents the total of CRR Account Holder crrh’s PTP Option bids associated with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, for the bid period bp.
crrh	None	A CRR Account Holder.
j	None	A source Settlement Point.
k	None	A sink Settlement Point.
a	None	A CRR Auction.
h	None	An Operating Hour.
bp	None	A CRR bid period.
7.7.2	[RESERVED]
7.8	Bilateral Trades and ERCOT CRR Registration System
(1)	Market Participants may sell or trade Point-to-Point (PTP) Options and PTP Obligations bilaterally, except PTP Options with Refund and PTP Obligations with Refund.  
(2)	The characteristics of the Congestion Revenue Rights (CRRs) sold or traded bilaterally, including CRR source and CRR sink and time-of-use block, may not be modified from the terms of the original CRR.  
(3)	ERCOT shall initially populate a database of CRR Owners with the first-buyers of CRRs and first-recipients of Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Rights (PCRRs).  
(4)	A transfer of CRRs through the ERCOT CRR registration system is not effective until the selling CRR Account Holder reports the transaction, the buying CRR Account Holder acknowledges the transaction, and both parties meet ERCOT’s credit requirements to support the transfer.  Until all of those occur, the selling CRR Account Holder is considered the CRR Owner for purposes of these Protocols, including financial responsibility.
(5)	For CRR ownership to be effective in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), the CRR must be registered through the ERCOT CRR registration system prior to the DAM.  PTP Obligations acquired in DAM may not change ownership in the ERCOT CRR registration system after DAM execution.  
7.9	CRR Settlements
7.9.1	Day-Ahead CRR Payments and Charges
7.9.1.1	Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in DAM
(1)	Except as specified in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT shall pay or charge the owner of each Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation based on the difference in the Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  
(2)	For PTP Obligations that have a positive value and sink at a Resource Node, the PTP Obligation payment may be reduced due to directional network elements that are oversold in previous Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auctions.
(3)	The payment or charge to each CRR Owner for a given Operating Hour of PTP Obligations with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points settled in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) is calculated as follows:
If the PTP Obligation has a non-positive value, i.e. (DAOBLPR (j, k)  0), or the sink, k, is a Load Zone or Hub, then
DAOBLAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * DAOBLTP o, (j, k)
If the PTP Obligation has a positive value and the sink is a Resource Node, then
DAOBLAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * Max ((DAOBLTP o, (j, k) – DAOBLDA o, (j, k)), Min (DAOBLTP o, (j, k), DAOBLHV o, (j, k)))
Where:
The target payment:
DAOBLTP o, (j, k)	=	DAOBLPR (j, k) * DAOBL o, (j, k)
The price based on the difference of the Settlement Point Prices:
DAOBLPR (j, k)	=	DASPP k - DASPP j
The derated amount:
DAOBLDA o, (j, k)	=	OBLDRPR (j, k) * DAOBL o, (j, k)
The price used to calculate the derated amount:
OBLDRPR (j, k)	=	 (Max (0, DAWASF j, c – DAWASF k, c) * DASP c * DRFc)
The hedge value:
DAOBLHV o, (j, k)	=	DAOBLHVPR (j, k) * DAOBL o, (j, k)
The price of the hedge value:
If the source, j, is a Load Zone or Hub and the sink, k, is a Resource Node,
DAOBLHVPR (j, k)	=	Max (0, MAXRESPR k – DASPP j)
If the source, j, is a Resource Node and the sink, k, is also a Resource Node,
DAOBLHVPR (j, k)	=	Max (0, MAXRESPR k – MINRESPR j)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOBLAMT o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Amount per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The payment or charge to CRR Owner o for the PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLTP o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Target Payment per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The target payment for CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLHV o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Hedge Value per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The hedge value of CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLDA o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Derated Amount per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The derated amount of CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Obligation Price per source and sink pair—The DAM price of a PTP Obligation with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DASPP j	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at source—The DAM Settlement Point Price at the source Settlement Point j, for the hour.
DASPP k	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at sink—The DAM Settlement Point Price at the sink Settlement Point k, for the hour.
OBLDRPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Obligation Deration Price per source and sink pair—The deration price of a PTP Obligation with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DASP c	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Shadow Price per constraint—The DAM Shadow Price of the constraint c for the hour.
DRF c	none	Deration Factor per constraint—The deration factor of the constraint c for the hour, equal to the MW amount by which the constraint is oversold divided by the total MW amount of the positive impacts on the constraint of all CRRs existing prior to DAM execution.
DAWASF j, c	none	Day-Ahead Weighted Average Shift Factor at source per constraint—The Day-Ahead Shift Factor for the source Settlement Point and the directional network element for constraint c, in the hour.
DAWASF k, c	None	Day-Ahead Weighted Average Shift Factor at sink per constraint—The Day-Ahead Shift Factor for the sink Settlement Point and the directional network element for constraint c, in the hour.
DAOBLHVPR (j, k)	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Obligation Hedge Value Price per source and sink pair—The Day-Ahead hedge price of a PTP Obligation with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
MINRESPR j	$/MWh	Minimum Resource Price for source—The lowest Minimum Resource Price for the Resources located at the source Settlement Point j.
MAXRESPR k	$/MWh	Max Resource Price for sink—The highest Maximum Resource Price for the Resources located at the sink Settlement Point k.
DAOBL o, (j, k)	MW	Day-Ahead Obligation per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The number of CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
c	none	A constraint associated with a directional network element for the hour.

(4)	The net total payment or charge to each CRR Owner for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Obligations settled in the DAM is calculated as follows: 
DAOBLAMTOTOT o	=	DAOBLCROTOT o + DAOBLCHOTOT o
Where:
DAOBLCROTOT o	=	  Min (0, DAOBLAMT o, (j, k))
DAOBLCHOTOT o	=	  Max (0, DAOBLAMT o, (j, k))
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOBLAMTOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Amount Owner Total per CRR Owner—The net total payment or charge to CRR Owner o for all its PTP Obligations settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLCROTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Credit Owner Total per CRR Owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o for its PTP Obligations settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLCHOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Charge Owner Total per CRR Owner—The total charge to CRR Owner o for its PTP Obligations settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLAMT o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment or charge to CRR Owner o for its PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

7.9.1.2	Payments for PTP Options Settled in DAM
(1)	Except as specified otherwise in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT shall pay the owner of a PTP Option the difference in the Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point, if positive.  
(2)	For PTP Options that sink at a Resource Node, the PTP Option payment may be reduced due to Transmission Elements that are oversold in previous CRR Auctions.  
(3)	The payment to each CRR Owner for a given Operating Hour of PTP Options with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points settled in the DAM is calculated as follows:
If the sink, k, is a Load Zone or Hub, then
DAOPTAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * DAOPTTP o, (j, k)
If the sink, k, is a Resource Node, then
DAOPTAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * Max ((DAOPTTP o, (j, k) – DAOPTDA o, (j, k)), Min (DAOPTTP o, (j, k), DAOPTHV o, (j, k)))
Where:
The target payment:
DAOPTTP o, (j, k)	=	DAOPTPR (j, k) * OPT o, (j, k)
The price based on the difference of the Settlement Point Prices:
DAOPTPR o, (j, k)	=	Max (0, DASPP k – DASPP j)
The derated amount:
DAOPTDA o, (j, k)	=	OPTDRPR (j, k) * OPT o, (j, k)
The price used to calculate the derated amount:
OPTDRPR (j, k)	=	 (Max (0, DAWASF j, c – DAWASF k, c) * DASP c * DRF c)
The hedge value:
DAOPTHV o, (j, k)	=	DAOPTHVPR (j, k) * OPT o, (j, k)
The price of the hedge value:
If the source, j, is a Load Zone or Hub and the sink, k, is a Resource Node,
DAOPTHVPR (j, k)	=	Max (0, MAXRESPR k – DASPP j)
If the source, j, is a Resource Node and the sink, k, is also a Resource Node,
DAOPTHVPR (j, k)	=	Max (0, MAXRESPR k – MINRESPR j)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOPTAMT o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Option Amount per CRR Owner per source and sink pairThe payment to CRR Owner o for the PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTTP o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Option Target Payment per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The target payment for CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTHV o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Option Hedge Value per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The hedge value of CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTDA o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Option Derated Amount per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The derated amount of CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Option Price per source and sink pairThe DAM price of a PTP Option with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DASPP j	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at sourceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the source Settlement Point j, for the hour.
DASPP k	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at sinkThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the sink Settlement Point k, for the hour.
OPTDRPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Option Deration Price per source and sink pair—The deration price of a PTP Option with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DASP c	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Shadow Price per constraint—The DAM Shadow Price of the constraint c for the hour.
DRF c	none	Deration Factor per constraint—The deration factor of the constraint c for the hour, equal to the MW amount by which the constraint is oversold divided by the total MW amount of the positive impacts on the constraint of all CRRs existing prior to DAM execution.
DAWASF j, c	none	Day-Ahead Weighted Average Shift Factor at source per constraint—The Day-Ahead Shift Factor for the source Settlement Point and the directional network element for constraint c, in the hour.
DAWASF k, c	none	Day-Ahead Weighted Average Shift Factor at sink per constraint—The Day-Ahead Shift Factor for the sink Settlement Point and the directional network element for constraint c, in the hour.
DAOPTHVPR (j, k)	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Option Hedge Value Price per source and sink pair—The Day-Ahead hedge price of a PTP Option with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
MINRESPR j	$/MWh	Minimum Resource Price for source—The lowest Minimum Resource Price for Resources located at the source Settlement Point j.
MAXRESPR k	$/MWh	Max Resource Price for sink—The highest Maximum Resource Price for Resources located at the sink Settlement Point k.
OPT o, (j, k)	MW	Option per CRR Owner per source and sink pairThe number of CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
c	none	A constraint associated with a directional network element for the hour.

(4)	The total payment to each CRR Owner for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Options settled in the DAM is calculated as follows: 
DAOPTAMTOTOT o	=	  DAOPTAMT o, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOPTAMTOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Option Amount Owner Total per CRR Owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o for all its PTP Options settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTAMT o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Option Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment to CRR Owner o for its PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

(5)	For informational purposes, the following calculation of PTP Option value shall be posted on the ERCOT website:
DAOPTPRINFO (j, k)	=	 (DASP c * Max (0, (DAWASF j, c – DAWASF k, c)))
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOPTPRINFO (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Option Informational Price per pair of source and sink—The informational DAM price of the PTP Options with the source Settlement Point j and the sink Settlement Point k, for the hour.
DAWASF j, c		Day-Ahead Weighted Average Shift Factor at source per constraint—The Day-Ahead Shift Factor for the source Settlement Point and for the constrained directional network element for constraint c, in the hour.
DAWASF k, c	none	Day-Ahead Weighted Average Shift Factor at sink per constraint—The Day-Ahead Shift Factor for the sink Settlement Point and for the constrained directional network element for constraint c, in the hour.
DASP c	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Shadow Price per constraint—The DAM Shadow Price for the constraint c for the hour.
c	none	A constraint associated with a directional network element for the hour.
7.9.1.3	Minimum and Maximum Resource Prices
(1)	For purposes of Section 7.9.1, Day-Ahead CRR Payments and Charges, Settlements data published to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area shall include the association of the Resource Category for each Generation Resource.  The following prices specified in paragraphs (2) and (3) below are used in the CRR hedge value calculation for CRRs settled in the DAM.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	For purposes of Section 7.9.1, Day-Ahead CRR Payments and Charges, Settlements data published to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area shall include the association of the Resource Category for each Generation Resource, identify Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) that are not Aggregate Load Resources (ALRs), and identify Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).  The following prices specified in paragraphs (2) and (3) below are used in the CRR hedge value calculation for CRRs settled in the DAM.
(2)	Minimum Resource Prices of source Settlement Points are:
MINRESPR j	 =	Min ( MINRESRPR j, r ) r
Where: 
Minimum Resource Prices for Resources located at source Settlement Points (MINRESRPR j, r) are:
(a)	Nuclear = -$20.00/MWh;
(b)	Hydro = -$20.00/MWh;
(c)	Coal and Lignite = $0.00/MWh;
(d)	Combined Cycle greater than 90 MW = Fuel Index Price (FIP) * 5 MMBtu/MWh;
(e)	Combined Cycle less than or equal to 90 MW = FIP * 6 MMBtu/MWh;
(f)	Gas -Steam Supercritical Boiler = FIP * 6.5 MMBtu/MWh;
(g)	Gas Steam Reheat Boiler = FIP * 7.5 MMBtu/MWh;
(h)	Gas Steam Non-Reheat or Boiler without Air-Preheater = FIP * 10.5 MMBtu/MWh;
(i)	Simple Cycle greater than 90 MW = FIP * 10 MMBtu/MWh;
(j)	Simple Cycle less than or equal to 90 MW = FIP * 11 MMBtu/MWh;
(k)	Diesel = FIP * 12 MMBtu/MWh;
(l)	Wind = -$35/MWh;
(m)	PhotoVoltaic (PV) = -$10;
(n)	Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Resource = RMR contract price Energy Offer Curve at Low Sustained Limit (LSL); and
[NPRR1188:  Insert item (o) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(o)	CLR = $100/MWh; and

[NPRR1014:  Insert item (p) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(p)	ESR = -$20/MWh; and
(o)	Other = -$20/MWh.
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
MINRESPR j	$/MWh	Minimum Resource Price for source—The lowest Minimum Resource Price for the Resources located at the source Settlement Point j.
MINRESRPR j	$/MWh	Minimum Resource Price for Resource—The Minimum Resource Price for the Resources located at the source Settlement Point j.
r	none	A Generation Resource located at the source Settlement Point j.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
A Generation Resource, CLR that is not an ALR, or ESR located at the source Settlement Point j.

j	none	A source Settlement Point.
(3)	Maximum Resource Prices of sink Settlement Points are:
MAXRESPR k	 =	Max (MAXRESRPR k, r ) r
Where:
Maximum Resource Prices for Resources located at sink Settlement Points (MAXRESRPR k, r ) are:
(a)	Nuclear = $15.00/MWh;
(b)	Hydro = $10.00/MWh;
(c)	Coal and Lignite = $18.00/MWh;
(d)	Combined Cycle greater than 90 MW = FIP * 9 MMBtu/MWh;
(e)	Combined Cycle less than or equal to 90 MW = FIP * 10 MMBtu/MWh;
(f)	Gas -Steam Supercritical Boiler = FIP * 10.5 MMBtu/MWh;
(g)	Gas Steam Reheat Boiler = FIP * 11.5 MMBtu/MWh;
(h)	Gas Steam Non-Reheat or Boiler without Air-Preheater = FIP * 14.5 MMBtu/MWh;
(i)	Simple Cycle greater than 90 MW = FIP * 14 MMBtu/MWh;
(j)	Simple Cycle less than or equal to 90 MW = FIP * 15 MMBtu/MWh;
(k)	Diesel = FIP * 16 MMBtu/MWh;
(l)	Wind = $0/MWh;
(m)	PV = $0/MWh;
(n)	RMR Resource = RMR contract price Energy Offer Curve at High Sustained Limit (HSL); and
[NPRR1188:  Insert item (o) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(o)	CLR = SWCAP; and

[NPRR1014:  Insert item (p) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(p)	ESR = $100/MWh; and
(o)	Other = $100/MWh.
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
MAXRESPR k	$/MWh	Maximum Resource Price for source—The highest Maximum Resource Price for the Resources located at the sink Settlement Point k.
MAXRESRPR k	$/MWh	Maximum Resource Price for Resource—The Maximum Resource Price for the Resources located at the sink Settlement Point k.
r	none	A Generation Resource located at the sink Settlement Point k.
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
A Generation Resource, CLR that is not an ALR, or ESR located at the sink Settlement Point k.

k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
7.9.1.4	Payments for FGRs Settled in DAM
There are currently no defined flowgates.
7.9.1.5	Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund Settled in DAM
(1)	ERCOT shall pay the owner of a PTP Obligation with Refund the difference in the Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point, subject to a charge for refund, when the price difference is positive, as described in the item (1)(e)(i) of Section 7.4.2.2, PCRR Allocation and Nominations.
(2)	The payment or charge to each CRR Owner for a given Operating Hour of PTP Obligations with Refund with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points settled in the DAM is calculated as follows:
DAOBLRAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * DAOBLPR (j, k) * Min (DAOBLR o, (j, k), OBLRACT o, (j, k))
Where:
DAOBLPR (j, k)		=	DASPP k - DASPP j
OBLRACT o, (j, k)	=	 (OBLROF o, r * RESACT r * OBLRF o, r, (j, k))
If (a valid OS r, y exists for all Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) intervals within the hour)
		RESACT r =     (OS r, y * TLMP y) / ( TLMP y)
Otherwise
		RESACT r	=	TGFTH r

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOBLRAMT o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sinkThe payment to CRR Owner o for the PTP Obligation with Refund with the source j and the sink k, settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Obligation PriceThe DAM price of a PTP Obligation with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DASPP j	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at sourceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the source Settlement Point j for the hour.
DASPP k	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at sinkThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the sink Settlement Point k for the hour.
DAOBLR o, (j, k)	MW	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink The number of CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with Refund with the source j and the sink k settled in DAM for the hour.
OBLRACT o, (j, k)	MW	Obligation with Refund Actual usage per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—CRR Owner o’s actual usage for the PTP Obligations with Refund with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
RESACT r	MW	Resource Actual per Resource per hour—The time-weighted average of the Output Schedule of Resource r (if a valid Output Schedule exists) or the telemetered output of Resource r, for the hour.
OBLROF o, r	none	Obligation with Refund Ownership Factor per CRR Owner per Resource—The factor showing the percentage usage of Resource r for CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with Refund.  Its value is 1, if only one CRR Owner has acquired Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Right (PCRRs) under the refund provision using this Resource r.
OS r, y	MW	Output Schedule per Resource per SCED interval—The Output Schedule submitted to ERCOT for Resource r for the SCED interval y.
TGFTH r	MWh	Telemetered Generation for the Hour per Resource per hour—The telemetered generation of Generation Resource r, for the hour.
OBLRF o, r, (j, k)	none	Obligation with Refund Factor per CRR Owner per Resource associated with pair of source and sink—The ratio of CRR Owner o’s Resource r’s capacity allocated to the PTP Obligations with Refund with the source j and sink k to the same CRR Owner’s total capacity for the Resource r nominated for all the PCRRs under the refund provision with the same source j.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per interval—The duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
y	none	A SCED interval in the hour. 
r	none	A Resource. 
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
(3)	The net total payment or charge to each CRR Owner for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM is calculated as follows: 
DAOBLRAMTOTOT o	=	DAOBLRCROTOT o + DAOBLRCHOTOT o
Where:
DAOBLRCROTOT o	=	  Min (0, DAOBLRAMT o, (j, k))
DAOBLRCHOTOT o	=	  Max (0, DAOBLRAMT o, (j, k))
The above variables are defined as follows:	
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOBLRAMTOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Amount Owner Total per CRR Owner—The net total payment or charge to CRR Owner o for all its PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLRCROTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Credit Owner Total per CRR Owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o for its PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLRCHOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Charge Owner Total per CRR Owner—The total charge to CRR Owner o for its PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLRAMT o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment or charge to CRR Owner o for the PTP Obligations with Refund with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

7.9.1.6	Payments for PTP Options with Refund Settled in DAM
(1)	ERCOT shall pay the owner of a PTP Option with Refund the difference in the DAM Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point, if positive, subject to a charge for refund, as described in item (1)(e)(i) of Section 7.4.2.2, PCRR Allocation and Nominations.
(2)	The payment to each CRR Owner for a given Operating Hour of its PTP Options with Refund with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points settled in the DAM is calculated as follows:
DAOPTRAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * DAOPTPR (j, k) * Min (OPTR o, (j, k), OPTRACT o, (j, k))
Where:
DAOPTPR (j, k)	=	Max (0, DASPP k – DASPP j)
OPTRACT o, (j, k)	=	 (OPTROF o, r * RESACT r * OPTRF o, r, (j, k))
If (a valid OS r, y exists for all SCED intervals within the hour)
		RESACT r	=	 (OS r, y * TLMP y) / ( TLMP y)
Otherwise
		RESACT r	=	TGFTH r

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOPTRAMT o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Option with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sinkThe payment to CRR Owner o for its PTP Options with Refund with the source j and the sink k, settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Day-Ahead Option Price per pair of source and sinkThe DAM price of the PTP Option with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DASPP j	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price at sourceThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the source Settlement Point j, for the hour.
DASPP k	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Pont Price at sinkThe DAM Settlement Point Price at the sink Settlement Point k, for the hour.
OPTR o, (j, k)	MW	Option with Refund per CRR Owner per pair of source and sinkThe number of CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with Refund with the source j and the sink k, settled in DAM, for the hour.
OPTRACT o, (j, k)	MW	Option with Refund Actual usage per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—CRR Owner o’s actual usage for the PTP Options with Refund with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
RESACT r	MW	Resource Actual per Resource per hour—The time-weighted average of the Output Schedule of Resource r (if a valid operating schedule exists) or the telemetered output of Resource r, for the hour.
OPTROF o, r	none	Option with Refund Ownership Factor per CRR Owner per Resource—The factor showing the percentage usage of Resource r for CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with Refund.  Its value is 1, if only one CRR Owner has acquired PCRRs under the refund provision using this Resource r.
OS r, y	MW	Output Schedule per Resource per SCED interval—The Output Schedule submitted to ERCOT for Resource r for the SCED interval y.
TGFTH r	MWh	Telemetered Generation for the Hour per Resource per hour—The telemetered generation of Generation Resource r, for the hour.
OPTRF o, r, (j, k)	none	Option with Refund Factor per CRR Owner per Resource associated with pair of source and sink—The ratio of CRR Owner o’s Resource r’s capacity allocated to the PTP Options with Refund with the source j and sink k to the same CRR Owner’s total capacity for the Resource r nominated PCRRs under the refund provision with the same source j.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per interval—The duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
y	none	A SCED interval in the hour.
r	none	A Resource. 
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
(3)	The total payment to each Non-Opt-In-Entity (NOIE) CRR Owner for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Options with Refund settled in the DAM is calculated as follows: 
DAOPTRAMTOTOT o	=	  DAOPTRAMT o, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAOPTRAMTOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Option with Refund Amount Owner Total per CRR Owner—The total payment to NOIE CRR Owner o for all its PTP Options with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTRAMT o, (j, k)	$	Day-Ahead Option with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment to NOIE CRR Owner o for the PTP Options with Refund with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM, for the hour.  
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

7.9.2	Real-Time CRR Payments and Charges
7.9.2.1	Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in Real-Time 
(1)	ERCOT shall pay the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) of each cleared PTP Obligation with links to an Option the positive difference in Real-Time Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  The payment to each QSE for a given Operating Hour of its cleared PTP Obligation with links to an Option with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points is calculated as follows: 
RTOBLLOAMT q, (j, k)	=     (-1) * MAX(0, RTOBLPR (j, k)) * RTOBLLO q, (j, k) 
(2)	ERCOT shall pay or charge the QSE of each PTP Obligation acquired in the DAM the difference in Real-Time Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  The payment or charge to each QSE for a given Operating Hour of its cleared PTP Obligations with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points is calculated as follows: 
RTOBLAMT q, (j, k)	=	(-1) * RTOBLPR (j, k) * RTOBL q, (j, k)
(3)	In the event that ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, ERCOT shall pay or charge the owner of each PTP Obligation based on the difference in Real-Time Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  The payment or charge to each CRR Owner for a given Operating Hour of its PTP Obligations with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points is calculated as follows:
NDRTOBLAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * RTOBLPR (j, k) * DAOBL o, (j, k)
Where:
RTOBLPR (j, k)	=	 (RTSPP k, i – RTSPP j, i) / 4
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RTOBLAMT q, (j, k)	$	Real-Time Obligation Amount per QSE per pair of source and sink—The payment or charge to QSE q for its PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time, for the hour.
RTOBLLOAMT q, (j, k)	$	Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option Amount per QSE per pair of source and sink—The payment  to QSE q for its PTP Obligations with Links to an Option with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time, for the hour.
NDRTOBLAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Obligation Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment or charge to CRR Owner o for its PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
RTOBLPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Real-Time Obligation Price—The Real-Time price of the PTP Obligation, for the hour.
RTSPP j, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at source per interval—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the source j for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTSPP k, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at sink per interval—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the sink k for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTOBL q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time Obligation per QSE per pair of source and sink—The total MW of QSE q’s PTP Obligation bids cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j and the sink k for the hour.
RTOBLLO q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option per QSE per pair of source and sink—The total MW of QSE q’s PTP Obligation bids with Links to an Option cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j and the sink k for the hour.
DAOBL o, (j, k)	MW	Day-Ahead Obligation per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The number of CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.1, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in DAM.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
q	none	A QSE.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval in the Operating Hour.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

(4)	The net total payment or charge to each QSE for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Obligations settled in Real-Time is calculated as follows: 
RTOBLAMTQSETOT q	=	  RTOBLAMT q, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RTOBLAMTQSETOT q	$	Real-Time Obligation Amount QSE Total per QSE—The net total payment or charge to QSE q of all its PTP Obligations settled in Real-Time, for the hour.
RTOBLAMT q, (j, k)	$	Real-Time Obligation Amount per QSE per pair of source and sink—The payment or charge to QSE q for the PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

(5)	The net total payment to each QSE for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Obligations with Links to Options settled in Real-Time is calculated as follows: 
RTOBLLOAMTQSETOT q	=	  RTOBLLOAMT q, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
RTOBLLOAMTQSETOT q	$	Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option Amount QSE Total per QSE—The net total payment to QSE q of all its PTP Obligations with Links to an Option settled in Real-Time, for the hour.
RTOBLLOAMT q, (j, k)	$	Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option Amount per QSE per pair of source and sink—The payment to QSE q for the PTP Obligations with Links to an Option with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time, for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

(6)	If ERCOT is unable to execute DAM, the net total payment or charge to each CRR Owner for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Obligations settled in Real-Time is calculated as follows: 
NDRTOBLAMTOTOT o	=	  NDRTOBLAMT o,(j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
NDRTOBLAMTOTOT o	$	No DAM Real-Time Obligation Amount Owner Total per CRR Owner—The net total payment or charge to CRR Owner o of all its PTP Obligations settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
NDRTOBLAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Obligation Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment or charge to CRR Owner o for its PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
o	None	A CRR Owner.
j	None	A source Settlement Point.
k	None	A sink Settlement Point.
7.9.2.2	Payments for PTP Options Settled in Real-Time 
(1)	When the DAM is not executed, ERCOT shall pay the owner of each PTP Option based on the positive difference in Real-Time Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  The payment to each CRR Owner for a given Operating Hour of its PTP Options with each pair of source and sink Settlement Points is calculated as follows:
NDRTOPTAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * NDRTOPTTP o, (j, k)
Where:
The target payment if ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM:
NDRTOPTTP o, (j, k)	=	RTOPTPR (j, k) * OPT o, (j, k)
RTOPTPR (j, k)		=	 Max (0, RTSPP k, i – RTSPP j, i) / 4
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
NDRTOPTAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Option Amount per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The payment to CRR Owner o of PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
NDRTOPTTP o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Option Target Payment per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The target payment for CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
RTOPTPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Real-Time Option Price per source and sink pair —The Real-Time price of a PTP Option or PTP Option with Refund with the source j and the sink k for the hour.
OPT o, (j, k)	MW	Option per CRR Owner per source and sink pairThe number of CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in the DAM for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.2, Payments for PTP Options Settled in DAM.
RTSPP j, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at source per interval—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the source Settlement Point j, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTSPP k, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at sink per interval—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the sink Settlement Point k, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

(2)	If ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, the total payment to each CRR Owner for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Options settled in Real-Time is calculated as follows: 
NDRTOPTAMTOTOT o	=	  NDRTOPTAMT o, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
NDRTOPTAMTOTOT o	$	No DAM Real-Time Option Amount Owner Total per CRR Owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o for all its PTP Options settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
NDRTOPTAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Option Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment to CRR Owner o for its PTP Options with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

7.9.2.3	Payments for NOIE PTP Options with Refund Settled in Real-Time 
(1)	When the DAM is not executed, ERCOT shall pay the NOIE owner of each PTP Option with Refund that was allocated to that NOIE as a PCRR, for the quantity up to the actual usage based on the positive difference in Real-Time Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  The payment to each NOIE CRR Owner for a given Operating Hour of its PTP Options with Refund each pair of source and sink Settlement Points is calculated as follows:
NDRTOPTRAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * NDRTOPTRTP o, (j, k) 
Where:
The target payment if ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM:
NDRTOPTRTP o, (j, k)	=	RTOPTPR (j, k) * Min (OPTR o, (j, k), OPTRACT o, (j, k))
OPTRACT o, (j, k)	=	 (OPTROF o, r * RESACT r * OPTRF o, r, (j, k))
If (a valid OS r, y exists for all SCED intervals within the hour)
		RESACT r	=	 OS r, y * TLMP y) / ( TLMPy)
Otherwise
		RESACT r	=	TGFTH r

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
NDRTOPTRAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Option with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment to CRR Owner o of the PTP Options with Refund with the source j and the sink k, settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
NDRTOPTRAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Option with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment to CRR Owner o of the PTP Options with Refund with the source j and the sink k, settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
NDRTOPTRTP o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Option with Refund Target Payment per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The target payment for CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with Refund, with the source j and the sink k, settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
RTSPP j, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at source per interval—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the source j for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTSPP k, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at sink per interval—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the sink k for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTOPTPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Real-Time Option Price per source and sink pair—The Real-Time price of a PTP Option with Refund with the source j and the sink k for the hour.
OPTRACT o, (j, k)	MW	Option with Refund Actual usage per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—CRR Owner o’s actual usage for the PTP Options with Refund with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
RESACT r	MW	Resource Actual per Resource per hour—The time-weighted average of the Output Schedule of Resource r (if a valid Output Schedule exists) or the telemetered output of Resource r, for the hour.
OPTROF o, r	none	Option with Refund Ownership Factor per CRR Owner per Resource—The factor showing the percentage usage of Resource r for CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with Refund.  Its value is 1, if only one CRR Owner uses this Resource for PCRRs under the refund provision.
OS r, y	MW	Output Schedule per Resource per SCED interval—The Output Schedule submitted to ERCOT for Resource r for the SCED interval y.
TGFTH r	MWh	Telemetered Generation for the Hour per Resource per hour—The telemetered generation of Generation Resource r, for the hour.
OPTRF o, r, (j, k)	none	Option with Refund Factor per CRR Owner per Resource associated with pair of source and sink—The ratio of CRR Owner o’s Resource r’s capacity allocated to the PTP Options with Refund with the source j and sink k to the same CRR Owner’s total capacity for the Resource r nominated for all the PCRRs under the refund provision with the same source j.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per interval—The duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the hour.
OPTR o, (j, k)	MW	Option with Refund per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The number of CRR Owner o’s PTP Options with Refund settled in the DAM for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
r	none	A Resource.
y	none	A SCED interval in the hour.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

(2)	If ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, the total payment to each NOIE CRR Owner for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Options with Refund settled in Real-Time is calculated as follows: 
NDRTOPTRAMTOTOT o	=	  NDRTOPTRAMT o, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
NDRTOPTRAMTOTOT o	$	No DAM Real-Time Option with Refund Amount Owner Total per CRR Owner—The total payment to NOIE CRR Owner o for all its PTP Options with Refund settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
NDRTOPTRAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Option with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—The payment to NOIE CRR Owner o for the PTP Options with Refund with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
7.9.2.4	Payments for FGRs in Real-Time 
(1)	There are currently no defined flowgates.

7.9.2.5	Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund in Real-Time
(1)	In the event that ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, ERCOT shall pay or charge the NOIE owner of a PTP Obligation with Refund, for the quantity up to the actual usage based on the difference in the Real-Time Settlement Point Prices between the sink Settlement Point and the source Settlement Point.  The payment or charge to each NOIE CRR Owner for a given Operating Hour of its PTP Options with Refund each pair of source and sink Settlement Points in Real-Time is calculated as follows:
NDRTOBLRAMT o, (j, k)	=	(-1) * NDRTOBLRTP o, (j, k)
Where:
The target payment:
NDRTOBLRTP o, (j, k)	=	RTOBLRPR (j, k) * Min (DAOBLR o, (j, k), OBLRACT o, (j, k))
	RTOBLPR (j, k)	=	 (RTSPP k, i – RTSPP j, i) / 4
	OBLRACT o, (j, k)	=	 (OBLROF o, r * RESACT r * OBLRF o, r, (j, k))
If (a valid OS r, y exists for all SCED intervals within the hour)

		RESACT r	=	 (OS r, y * TLMP y) / ( TLMP y)
Otherwise
		RESACT r	=	TGFTH r

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
NDRTOBLRAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Obligation with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sinkThe payment to CRR Owner o for the PTP Obligation with Refund with the source j and the sink k, settled in Real-Time, when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
NDRTOBLRTP o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Obligation with Refund Target Payment per CRR Owner per source and sink pair—The target payment for CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with Refund, with the source j and the sink k, settled in Real-Time, when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
RTOBLPR (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Real-Time Obligation Price—The Real-Time price of the PTP Obligation, for the hour.
RTSPP j, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at source per interval—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the source j for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
RTSPP k, i	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price at sink per interval—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the sink k for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
DAOBLR o, (j, k)	MW	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund per CRR Owner per pair of source and sinkThe number of CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations with Refund with the source j and the sink k settled in DAM for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.5, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund Settled in DAM.
OBLRACT o, (j, k)	MW	Obligation with Refund Actual usage per CRR Owner per pair of source and sink—CRR Owner o’s actual usage for the PTP Obligations with Refund with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
RESACT r	MW	Resource Actual per Resource per hour—The time-weighted average of the Output Schedule of Resource r (if a valid Output Schedule exists) or the telemetered output of Resource r, for the hour.
OBLROF o, r	none	Obligation with Refund Ownership Factor per CRR Owner per Resource—The factor showing the percentage usage of Resource r for CRR Owner o’s PTP Obligations.  Its value is 1, if only one CRR Owner has acquired PCRRs under the refund provision using this Resource r.
OS r, y	MW	Output Schedule per Resource per SCED interval—The Output Schedule submitted to ERCOT for Resource r for the SCED interval y.
TGFTH r	MWh	Telemetered Generation for the Hour per Resource per Hour—The telemetered generation of Generation Resource r, for the hour.
OBLRF o, r, (j, k)	none	Obligation with Refund Factor per CRR Owner per Resource—The ratio of CRR Owner o’s Resource r’s capacity allocated to the PTP Obligations with Refund with the source j and sink k to the same CRR Owner’s total capacity for the Resource r nominated for all the PCRRs under the refund provision with the same source j.
TLMP y	second	Duration of SCED interval per interval—The duration of the portion of the SCED interval y within the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
y	none	A SCED interval in the hour. 
r	none	A Resource. 
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.

(2)	If ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, the net total payment or charge to each CRR Owner for the Operating Hour of all its PTP Obligations with Refund settled in Real-Time is calculated as follows: 
NDRTOBLRAMTOTOT o	=    NDRTOBLRAMT o, (j, k)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
NDRTOBLRAMTOTOT o	$	No DAM Real-Time Obligation with Refund Amount Owner Total per CRR Owner—The net total payment or charge to CRR Owner o for all its PTP Obligations with Refund settled in Real-Time, when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
NDRTOBLRAMT o, (j, k)	$	No DAM Real-Time Obligation with Refund Amount per CRR Owner per pair of source and sinkThe payment to CRR Owner o for the PTP Obligation with Refund with the source j and the sink k, settled in Real-Time, when ERCOT is unable to execute the DAM, for the hour.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
7.9.3	CRR Balancing Account 
7.9.3.1	DAM Congestion Rent
(1)	The DAM congestion rent is calculated as the sum of the following payments and charges:
(a)	The total of payments to all QSEs for cleared DAM energy offers, whether through Three-Part Supply Offers or through DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, calculated under Section 4.6.2.1, Day-Ahead Energy Payment;
[NPRR1245:  Replace item (a) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(a)	The total of payments to all QSEs for cleared DAM energy offers, whether through Three-Part Supply Offers, DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, or cleared sales from the offer portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, calculated under Section 4.6.2.1, Day-Ahead Energy Payment;
(b)	The total of charges to all QSEs for cleared DAM Energy Bids, calculated under Section 4.6.2.2	, Day-Ahead Energy Charge; and
[NPRR1245:  Replace item (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	The total of charges to all QSEs for cleared DAM Energy Bids or cleared purchases from the bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, calculated under Section 4.6.2.2	, Day-Ahead Energy Charge; and

[NPRR1188:  Replace item (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	The total of charges to all QSEs for cleared DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves, calculated under Section 4.6.2.2, Day-Ahead Energy Charge; and
(c)	The total of charges or payments to all QSEs for PTP Obligation bids cleared in the DAM, calculated under Section 4.6.3, Settlement for PTP Obligations Bought in DAM.
(d)	The total of charges to all QSEs for PTP Obligation with Links to an Option bids cleared in the DAM, calculated under Section 4.6.3.
(2)	The DAM congestion rent for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows:
DACONGRENT	=	DAESAMTTOT + DAEPAMTTOT + DARTOBLAMTTOT + DARTOBLLOAMTTOT
Where:
DAESAMTTOT	=	 DAESAMTQSETOT q
DAEPAMTTOT	=	 DAEPAMTQSETOT q
DARTOBLAMTTOT	=	 DARTOBLAMTQSETOT q
DARTOBLLOAMTTOT	=	 DARTOBLLOAMTQSETOT q
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DACONGRENT	$	Day-Ahead Congestion RentThe congestion rent collected in the DAM for the hour.
DAESAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Energy Sale Amount TotalThe total payment to all QSEs for cleared DAM energy offers, whether through Three-Part Supply Offers or through DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, for the hour.
[NPRR1245:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Day-Ahead Energy Sale Amount TotalThe total payment to all QSEs for cleared DAM energy offers, whether through Three-Part Supply Offers, DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, or cleared sales from the offer portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, for the hour.

DAEPAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount TotalThe total charge to all QSEs for cleared DAM Energy Bids for the hour.

[NPRR1245:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount TotalThe total charge to all QSEs for cleared DAM Energy Bids or cleared purchases from the bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves for the hour.

[NPRR1188:  Replace definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount TotalThe total charge to all QSEs for DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves, cleared in the DAM, for the hour.

DARTOBLAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation Amount TotalThe net total charge or payment to all QSEs for cleared PTP Obligation bids in the DAM for the hour.
DARTOBLLOAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option Amount TotalThe net total charge to all QSEs for charge to QSE q for a PTP Obligation with Links to an Option Bid cleared in the DAM with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.
DAESAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Energy Sale Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total payment to QSE q for cleared DAM energy offers, whether through Three-Part Supply Offers or through DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, for the hour.  See item (2) of Section 4.6.2.1.
[NPRR1245:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Day-Ahead Energy Sale Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total payment to QSE q for cleared DAM energy offers, whether through Three-Part Supply Offers, DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, or cleared sales from the offer portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves, for the hour.  See item (2) of Section 4.6.2.1.

DAEPAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total charge to QSE q for cleared DAM Energy Bids for the hour.  See item (2) of Section 4.6.2.2.

[NPRR1245:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total charge to QSE q for cleared DAM Energy Bids or cleared purchases from the bid portion of Energy Bid/Offer Curves for the hour.  See item (2) of Section 4.6.2.2.

[NPRR1188:  Replace definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total charge to QSE q for DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves, cleared in the DAM, for the hour.  See item (2) of Section 4.6.2.2.

DARTOBLAMTQSETOT q	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation Amount QSE Total per QSEThe total charge or payment to QSE q for PTP Obligation Bids cleared in the DAM for the hour.  See item (2) of Section 4.6.3.
DARTOBLLOAMTQSETOTq	$	Day-Ahead Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option Amount QSE Total per QSEThe net total charge to QSE q for all its PTP Obligation with Links to Option Bids cleared in the DAM for the hour.
q	none	A QSE.
7.9.3.2	Credit to CRR Balancing Account
(1)	If the Day-Ahead Congestion Rent is greater than the total payment to all CRR Owners for the CRRs settled in the DAM for any Operating Hour, a credit is put into the CRR Balancing Account for that Operating Hour.  The credit to the CRR Balancing Account for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows:
CRRBACR	=	Max (0, (DACONGRENT + DACRRCRTOT + DACRRCHTOT))
Where:
DACRRCRTOT	=	DAOBLCRTOT + DAOBLRCRTOT + DAOPTAMTTOT + DAOPTRAMTTOT
DACRRCHTOT	=	DAOBLCHTOT + DAOBLRCHTOT
DAOBLCRTOT	=	 DAOBLCROTOT o
DAOBLCHTOT	=	 DAOBLCHOTOT o
DAOBLRCRTOT	=	 DAOBLRCROTOT o
DAOBLRCHTOT	=	 DAOBLRCHOTOT o
DAOPTAMTTOT	=	 DAOPTAMTOTOT o
DAOPTRAMTTOT	=	 DAOPTRAMTOTOT o
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
CRRBACR	$	CRR Balancing Account Credit—The credit to the CRR Balancing Account for the hour.
DACONGRENT	$	Day-Ahead Congestion Rent—The congestion rent collected in the DAM for the hour.  See Section 7.9.3.1, DAM Congestion Rent.
DACRRCRTOT	$	Day-Ahead CRR Credit Total—The total payment to all CRR Owners of all CRRs settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DACRRCHTOT	$	Day-Ahead CRR Charge Total—The total charge to all CRR Owners of all CRRs settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLCRTOT	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Credit Total—The total payment of all PTP Obligations settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLCHTOT	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Charge Total—The total charge of all PTP Obligations settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLRCRTOT	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Credit Total—The total payment of all PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLRCHTOT	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Charge Total—The total charge of all PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Option Amount Total—The total payment of all PTP Options settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOPTRAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead Option with Refund Amount Total—The total payment of all PTP Options with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DAOBLCROTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Credit Owner Total per owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o of PTP Obligations settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.1, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in DAM.
DAOBLCHOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Charge Owner Total per owner—The total charge to CRR Owner o of PTP Obligations settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.1.
DAOBLRCROTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Credit Owner Total per owner—The total payment to the CRR Owner o of PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.5, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund Settled in DAM.
DAOBLRCHOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Charge Owner Total per owner—The total charge to CRR Owner o of PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.5.
DAOPTAMTOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Option Amount Owner Total per owner—The total payment to the CRR Owner o of PTP Options settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.2, Payments for PTP Options Settled in DAM.
DAOPTRAMTOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Option with Refund Amount Owner Total per owner—The total payment to the CRR Owner o of PTP Options with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.6, Payments for PTP Options with Refund Settled in DAM.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
7.9.3.3	Shortfall Charges to CRR Owners
(1)	For each Operating Hour, if the Day-Ahead Congestion Rent is less than the total payment to all CRR Owners for the CRRs settled in the DAM, a charge will be made to each CRR Owner for any of its CRRs settled in the DAM that have positive Settlement prices.  
(2)	The charge to each CRR Owner for its CRRs settled in the DAM for a given Operating Hour is calculated as follows: 
DACRRSAMT o	=	DACRRSAMTTOT * CRRCRRSDA o
Where:
DACRRSAMTTOT	=	(-1) * Min (0, DACONGRENT + DACRRCRTOT + DACRRCHTOT)
CRRCRRSDA o	=	(DAOBLCROTOT o + DAOBLRCROTOT o + DAOPTAMTOTOT o + DAOPTRAMTOTOT o) / (DACRRCRTOT)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DACRRSAMT o	$	Day-Ahead CRR Shortfall Amount per owner—The shortfall charge to CRR Owner o for its CRRs settled in the DAM, for the hour.
DACRRSAMTTOT	$	Day-Ahead CRR Shortfall Amount Total—The shortfall charge to all CRR Owners for their CRRs settled in the DAM and the Real-Time Market (RTM), for the hour.
DACONGRENT	$	Day-Ahead Congestion Rent—The Congestion Rent collected in the DAM for the hour.  See Section 7.9.3.1, DAM Congestion Rent.
DACRRCRTOT	$	Day-Ahead CRR Credit Total—The total payment to all CRR Owners of all the CRRs settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.3.2, Credit to CRR Balancing Account.
DACRRCHTOT	$	Day-Ahead CRR Charge Total—The total charge to all CRR Owners of all the CRRs settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.3.2.
CRRCRRSDA o	none	CRR Credit Ratio Share Day-Ahead per owner—The ratio of the total payments to CRR Owner o of its CRRs settled in the DAM to the total payments to all CRR Owners of all CRRS, for the hour.
DAOBLCROTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation Credit Owner Total per owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o of PTP Obligations settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.1, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in DAM.
DAOBLRCROTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Obligation with Refund Credit Owner Total per owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o of PTP Obligations with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.5, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund Settled in DAM.
DAOPTAMTOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Option Amount Owner Total per owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o of PTP Options settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.2, Payments PTP Options Settled in DAM.
DAOPTRAMTOTOT o	$	Day-Ahead Option with Refund Amount Owner Total per owner—The total payment to CRR Owner o of PTP Options with Refund settled in the DAM, for the hour.  See Section 7.9.1.6, Payments for PTP Options with Refund Settled in DAM.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
7.9.3.4	Monthly Refunds to Short-Paid CRR Owners
(1)	On a monthly basis, a refund may be paid to the CRR Owners that have a shortfall charge for any Operating Hour in a month.  The refund to each CRR Owner for a given month is calculated as follows: 
If CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT < CRRSAMTTOT :
CRRRAMT o                 =	(-1) * Min (CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT + CRRBAFA m, CRRSAMTTOT) * CRRSAMTRS o
Where:
CRRBAFA m                    =	Min (CRRBAFBBAL, CRRSAMTTOT – (CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT))
Otherwise:
CRRRAMT o             =	(-1) * Min (CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT, CRRSAMTTOT) * CRRSAMTRS o
Where:
CRRBACRTOT      =	 CRRBACR h
CRRFEETOT          =	   (OPTAFAMT crrh, a)
If (CRRSAMTTOT = 0) 
CRRSAMTRS o	=	0
Otherwise:
CRRSAMTRS o	=	CRRSAMTOTOT o / CRRSAMTTOT
CRRSAMTTOT           =	 CRRSAMTOTOT o
CRRSAMTOTOT o      =	      DACRRSAMT o, h 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
CRRRAMT o	$	CRR Refund Amount per owner—The refund to the short-paid CRR Owner o for the month.
CRRBACRTOT	$	CRR Balancing Account Credit Total—The total of credits accumulated in the CRR Balancing Account for all Operating Hours in the month.			
CRRBAFA m		$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Available—The amount available to cover CRR shortfalls from the CRR Balancing Account fund for the month.
CRRBAFBBAL	$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Beginning Balance—The amount in the CRR Balancing Account Fund at the previous Settlement.
CRRSAMTTOT	$	CRR Shortfall Amount Total—The total of shortfall charges to all CRR Owners for all Operating Hours in the month.
CRRSAMTRS o	none	CRR Shortfall Amount Ratio Share per owner—The ratio of the CRR Owner o’s total shortfall-charge to the total of all the CRR Owners’ shortfall charges, for the month.
CRRSAMTOTOT o	$	CRR Shortfall Amount Owner Total per owner—The total of shortfall charges to CRR Owner o for all Operating Hours in the month.
DACRRSAMT o, h	$	Day-Ahead CRR Shortfall Amount per owner per hour—The shortfall charge to CRR Owner o for its CRRs settled in the DAM for the hour h.
CRRBACR h	$	CRR Balancing Account Credit per hour—The credit to the CRR Balancing Account for the hour h.
CRRFEETOT	$	CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total—The sum of the PTP Option Award Charges to all CRR Account Holders in single-month or multi-month CRR Auctions for the month.
OPTAFAMT crrh, a	$	PTP Option Award Charge Amount per CRR Account Holder per CRR Auction—The charge assessed to CRR Account Holder crrh for PTP Option awards awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour for which the clearing price is less than the defined Minimum PTP Option Bid Price for the month.  For a multi-month CRR Auction, the charge shall be calculated for each month.
m	none	A month.
h	none	An Operating Hour in the month.
o	none	A CRR Owner.
crrh	none	A CRR Account Holder.
a	none	A CRR Auction
7.9.3.5	CRR Balancing Account Closure
(1)	After the calculation of refunds described in Section 7.9.3.4, Monthly Refunds to Short-Paid CRR Owners, any CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total in excess of the refunds described in Section 7.9.3.4 will first be used to fund the CRR Balancing Account Fund if the prior month’s CRR Balancing Account Fund Balance is less than the CRR Balancing Account Fund Cap.  Any surplus that remains from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total above the CRR Balancing Account Fund cap is paid to the QSEs representing Load Serving Entities (LSEs) based on a monthly Load Ratio Share (LRS).  The monthly LRS is the 15-minute LRS calculated for the peak-Load Settlement Interval during the month.  The CRR Balancing Account Fund Cap is $10 million.
[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	After the calculation of refunds described in Section 7.9.3.4, Monthly Refunds to Short-Paid CRR Owners, any CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total in excess of the refunds described in Section 7.9.3.4 will first be used to fund the CRR Balancing Account Fund if the prior month’s CRR Balancing Account Fund Balance is less than the CRR Balancing Account Fund Cap.  Any surplus that remains from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total above the CRR Balancing Account Fund cap is paid to the QSEs representing Load Serving Entities (LSEs) based on the QSEs ratio shares.  The CRR Balancing Account Fund Cap is $10 million.
(2)	The credit to each QSE representing LSEs for a given month is calculated as follows:
LACRRAMT q	=	(-1) * Max ((CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT + CRRRAMTTOT) - (FUNDCAP- CRRBAFBBAL),0) * MLRS q
Where:
CRRRAMTTOT	=	 CRRRAMT o
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LACRRAMT q	$	Load-Allocated CRR Amount per QSE—The allocated surplus from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total at the end of the month to QSE q, based on LRS for the month.
CRRBAFBBAL	$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Beginning Balance—The amount in the CRR Balancing Account Fund at the end of the previous month.
FUNDCAP	$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Cap—The threshold amount in the CRR Balancing Account Fund above which funds are available to allocate to QSEs representing Load.
CRRBACRTOT	$	CRR Balancing Account Credit Total—The total credit accumulated in the CRR Balancing Account during the month.  See its calculation in Section 7.9.3.4.
CRRFEETOT	$	CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total—The sum of the PTP Option Award Charges to all CRR Account Holders in single-month or multi-month CRR Auctions for the month.
CRRRAMTTOT	$	CRR Refund Amount Total—The total refund to all the previously short-paid CRR Owners at the end of the month.
CRRRAMT o	$	CRR Refund Amount per owner—The refund credited to the CRR Owner o at the end of the month.
MLRS q	none	Monthly Load Ratio Share per QSE—The LRS calculated for QSE q for the 15-minute monthly peak-load Settlement Interval.  See Section 6.6.2.2, QSE Load Ratio Share for a 15-Minute Settlement Interval, for the calculation of LRS for a 15-minute Settlement Interval.
m	none	A month.
q	none	A QSE.
o	none	A CRR Owner.

[NPRR1030:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	The credit to each QSE representing LSEs for a given month is calculated as follows:
LACRRAMT q       =	(-1) * (CRRDC q + CRRNDC q)
Where:
CRRNDC q       =	(CRRALLOCTOT –  CRRDC q ) * MLRS q
CRRDC q           = 	CRRALLOCTOT * DCMLRS q
CRRALLOCTOT       =	Max ((CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT + CRRRAMTTOT) – (FUNDCAP – CRRBAFBBAL), 0)
CRRRAMTTOT    =	 CRRRAMT o
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LACRRAMT q	$	Load-Allocated CRR Amount per QSE—The allocated surplus from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total at the end of the month to QSE q with Loads and Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports.
CRRDC q	$	CRR Amount for DC Tie Exports per QSE—The allocated surplus from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total at the end of the month to QSE q for DC Tie Exports based on DC Tie ratio shares for the month.
CRRNDC q	$	CRR Amount for Non-DC Tie Loads per QSE—The allocated surplus from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total at the end of the month to QSE q for Load (excluding DC Tie exports), based on ratio share for the peak Load 15-minute Settlement Interval for the month.
CRRBAFBBAL	$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Beginning Balance—The amount in the CRR Balancing Account Fund at the end of the previous month.
FUNDCAP	$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Cap—The threshold amount in the CRR Balancing Account Fund above which funds are available to allocate to QSEs representing Load.
CRRBACRTOT	$	CRR Balancing Account Credit Total—The total credit accumulated in the CRR Balancing Account during the month.  See its calculation in Section 7.9.3.4.
CRRFEETOT	$	CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total—The sum of the PTP Option Award Charges to all CRR Account Holders in single-month or multi-month CRR Auctions for the month.
CRRALLOCTOT	$	CRR Allocation Amount Total – The surplus from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction PTP Option Award Charge Total at the end of the month.
CRRRAMTTOT	$	CRR Refund Amount Total—The total refund to all the previously short-paid CRR Owners at the end of the month.
CRRRAMT o	$	CRR Refund Amount per owner—The refund credited to the CRR Owner o at the end of the month.
DCMLRS q	none	DC Tie Monthly Load Ratio Share per QSE—The ratio share calculated for QSE q with DC Tie exports for the calendar month.  See Section 6.6.2.6, QSE DC Tie Export Load Ratio Share for a Month.
MLRS q	none	Monthly Load Ratio Share per QSE — The ratio share of Loads excluding DC Tie exports for QSE q, for the peak Load 15-minute Settlement Interval in the month.
q	none	A QSE.
o	none	A CRR Owner.

7.9.3.6	Rolling CRR Balancing Account Fund
(1)	ERCOT shall establish a rolling CRR Balancing Account Fund (CRRBAF) as follows:

(a)	The CRRBAF shall be funded beginning in the first month after implementation and every month that the CRR Balancing Account credit exceeds monthly CRR shortfalls.
(b)	The CRRBAF calculated for a month shall not exceed the CRR Balancing Account Fund Cap.
(c)	The CRRBAF shall refund to LSEs any surplus above the fund cap.
(d)	In the event that a resettlement of the CRR Balancing Account is required, the CRRBAF for the resettlement will be calculated using the CRRBAF at the end of the previous month from the date of the resettlement invoice.   
(e)	The end of the month CRRBAF is calculated as follows:
	If CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT < CRRSAMTTOT:

CRRBAF m	=	CRRBAFBBAL - CRRBAFA m 
Otherwise if CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT > CRRSAMTTOT and CRRBAF < FUNDCAP:

CRRBAF m           	=	CRRBAFBBAL + (CRRBACRTOT + CRRFEETOT – CRRSAMTTOT) + LACRRAMTTOT
Where:

LACRRAMTTOT 	= 	  LACRRAMT q

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
CRRBACRTOT
	$	CRR Balancing Account Credit Total—The total credit accumulated in the CRR Balancing Account during the month.  See its calculation in Section 7.9.3.4, Monthly Refunds to Short-Paid CRR Owners.
CRRFEETOT	$	CRR Auction Fee Total—The sum of the PTP Option Award Fees charged to all CRR Account Holders in single-month or multi-month CRR Auctions for the month.
CRRSAMTTOT	$	CRR Shortfall Amount Total—The total of shortfall charges to all CRR Owners for all Operating Hours in the month.
CRRBAFBBAL	$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Beginning Balance—The amount in the CRR Balancing Account Fund at the end of the previous month.
CRRBAF m  	$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Balance—The amount in the CRR Balancing Account Fund at the end of the current month.
CRRBAFA m		$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Available—The amount available to cover CRR shortfalls from the CRR Balancing Account Fund for the month.
FUNDCAP	$	CRR Balancing Account Fund Cap—The threshold amount in the CRR Balancing Account Fund above which funds are available to allocate to QSEs representing Load.
LACRRAMTTOT	$	Load-Allocated CRR Amount Total—The net total surplus from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction fees at the end of the month.
LACRRAMT q	$	Load-Allocated CRR Amount per QSE—The allocated surplus from the CRR Balancing Account and CRR Auction fees at the end of the month to QSE q, based on LRS for the month.
m	none	A month.


ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 8:  Performance Monitoring 

April 1, 2025




 
8	Performance Monitoring	8-1
8.1	QSE and Resource Performance Monitoring	8-1
8.1.1	QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards	8-2
8.1.1.1	Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing	8-3
8.1.1.2	General Capacity Testing Requirements	8-9
8.1.1.2.1	Ancillary Service Technical Requirements and Qualification Criteria and Test Methods	8-14
8.1.1.2.1.1	Regulation Service Qualification	8-14
8.1.1.2.1.2	Responsive Reserve Qualification	8-17
8.1.1.2.1.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Qualification	8-21
8.1.1.2.1.4	Voltage Support Service Qualification	8-24
8.1.1.2.1.5	System Black Start Capability Qualification and Testing	8-24
8.1.1.2.1.6	Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource Qualification, Testing, Decertification, and Recertification	8-31
8.1.1.2.1.7	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Qualification	8-39
8.1.1.3	Ancillary Service Capacity Compliance Criteria	8-42
8.1.1.3.1	Regulation Service Capacity Monitoring Criteria	8-45
8.1.1.3.2	Responsive Reserve Capacity Monitoring Criteria	8-45
8.1.1.3.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Capacity Monitoring Criteria	8-46
8.1.1.3.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Capacity Monitoring Criteria	8-47
8.1.1.4	Ancillary Service and Energy Deployment Compliance Criteria	8-48
8.1.1.4.1	Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics	8-48
8.1.1.4.2	Responsive Reserve Energy Deployment Criteria	8-66
8.1.1.4.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria	8-70
8.1.1.4.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria	8-74
8.1.2	Current Operating Plan (COP) Performance Requirements	8-77
8.1.3	Emergency Response Service Performance and Testing	8-78
8.1.3.1	Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources	8-79
8.1.3.1.1	Baselines for Emergency Response Service Loads	8-79
8.1.3.1.2	Performance Evaluation for Emergency Response Service Generators	8-81
8.1.3.1.3	Availability Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources	8-83
8.1.3.1.3.1	Time Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Loads	8-84
8.1.3.1.3.2	Time Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Generators	8-85
8.1.3.1.3.3	Contract Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Resources	8-87
8.1.3.1.4	Event Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources	8-89
8.1.3.2	Testing of Emergency Response Service Resources	8-92
8.1.3.3	Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities	8-96
8.1.3.3.1	Suspension of Qualification of Non-Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities	8-96
8.1.3.3.2	Payment Reduction and Suspension of Qualification of Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Loads and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities	8-102
8.1.3.3.3	Performance Criteria for Qualified Scheduling Entities Representing Non-Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Resources	8-103
8.1.3.3.4	Performance Criteria for Qualified Scheduling Entities Representing Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Loads	8-106
8.1.3.4	ERCOT Data Collection for Emergency Response Service	8-107
8.2	ERCOT Performance Monitoring	8-107
8.3	TSP Performance Monitoring and Compliance	8-109
8.4	ERCOT Response to Market Non-Performance	8-110
8.5	Primary Frequency Response Requirements and Monitoring	8-111
8.5.1	Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource, and QSE Participation	8-111
8.5.1.1	Governor in Service	8-111
8.5.1.2	Reporting	8-112
8.5.1.3 	Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) Primary Frequency Response	8-113
8.5.2	Primary Frequency Response Measurements	8-113
8.5.2.1	ERCOT Required Primary Frequency Response	8-114
8.5.2.2	ERCOT Data Collection	8-115

 
8	PERFORMANCE MONITORING
(1)	This Section describes how the performance of ERCOT, Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) are measured against the requirements of these Protocols.  All performance measures must be approved by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) prior to implementation.  Summaries of the performance of each TSP and QSE and of ERCOT are to be made available on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area unless otherwise stated.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	This Section describes how the performance of ERCOT, Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), and Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) are measured against the requirements of these Protocols.  All performance measures must be approved by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) prior to implementation.  Summaries of the performance of each TSP, DCTO, and QSE and of ERCOT are to be made available on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area unless otherwise stated.
8.1	QSE and Resource Performance Monitoring
(1)	ERCOT shall develop a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)- and ERCOT Board-approved Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) and Resource monitoring program to be included in the Operating Guides.  Nothing in this Section changes the process for amending the Operating Guides.  The metrics developed by ERCOT and approved by TAC and the ERCOT Board must include the provisions of this Section.
(2)	Each QSE and Resource shall meet performance measures as described in this Section and in the Operating Guides.
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor and post the following categories of performance:
(a)	Real-Time data, for QSEs:
(i)	Telemetry performance;
(b)	Regulation control performance, for QSEs and as applicable, Resource-specific performance (see also Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards);
(c)	Hydro responsive testing for Generation Resources;
(d)	Supplying and validating data for generator models, as requested by ERCOT, for Generation Resources;
[NPRR1246:  Replace item (d) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(d)	Supplying and validating data for generator models, as requested by ERCOT, for Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs);
(e)	Outage scheduling and coordination, for QSEs and Resources;
(f)	Resource-specific Responsive Reserve (RRS) performance for QSEs and Resources;
(g)	Resource-specific Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) performance, for QSEs and Resources;
(h)	Resource-specific ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) performance for QSEs and Resources;
(i)	Outage reporting, by QSEs for Resources;
(j)	Current Operating Plan (COP) metrics, for QSEs; and
(k)	Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) commitment performance by QSEs and Generation Resources. 
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor and post the following categories of performance:
(a)	Real-Time data, for QSEs:
(i)	Telemetry performance;
(b)	Regulation control performance, for QSEs and as applicable, Resource-specific performance (see also Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards);
(c)	Hydro responsive testing for Generation Resources, on the ERCOT website;
(d)	Supplying and validating data for generator models, as requested by ERCOT, for Generation Resources;
(e)	Outage scheduling and coordination, for QSEs and Resources;
(f)	Resource-specific Responsive Reserve (RRS) performance for QSEs and Resources, on the ERCOT website;
(g)	Resource-specific Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) performance, for QSEs and Resources, on the ERCOT website;
(h)	Resource-specific ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) performance for QSEs and Resources, on the ERCOT website;
(i)	Outage reporting, by QSEs for Resources;
(j)	Current Operating Plan (COP) metrics, for QSEs, on the ERCOT website; and
(k)	Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) and Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) commitment performance by QSEs and Generation Resources, on the ERCOT website.
8.1.1	QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards
(1)	Each QSE and its Resources that provide Ancillary Service must meet performance measures set out in these Protocols and the Operating Guides.  ERCOT shall develop a TAC- and ERCOT Board-approved Ancillary Service monitoring program to evaluate the performance of QSEs and Resources providing Ancillary Services prior to the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date.  This program must include monitoring of capacity availability and energy deployments as described below and in Section 6.5.7.5, Ancillary Services Capacity Monitor.
8.1.1.1	Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing
(1)	Each QSE and the Resource providing Ancillary Service must meet qualification criteria to operate satisfactorily with ERCOT.  ERCOT shall use the Ancillary Service qualification and testing program that is approved by TAC and included in the Operating Guides.  Each QSE for the Resources that it represents may only provide Ancillary Services on those Resources for which it has met the qualification criteria.
(2)	General capacity testing must be used to verify a Resource’s Net Dependable Capability.  Qualification tests allow the Resource and QSE to demonstrate the minimum capabilities necessary to deploy an Ancillary Service.  
(3)	A Resource may be provisionally qualified for a period of 90 days and may be eligible to participate as a Resource providing Ancillary Service.  Resources that have installed the appropriate equipment with verifiable testing data may be provisionally qualified as providers of Ancillary Service. 
(4)	A Load Resource may be provisionally qualified for a period of 90 days to participate as a Resource providing Ancillary Service, if the Load Resource is metered with an Interval Data Recorder (IDR) to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction.  A Load Resource providing Ancillary Service in Real-Time must meet the following requirements:
(a)	Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) registration of Load Resources providing Ancillary Service by the QSE; and
(b)	Load Resource telemetry is installed and tested between QSE and ERCOT.
(5)	Provisional qualification as described herein may be revoked by ERCOT at any time for any non-compliance with provisional qualification requirements.
(6)	For those Settlement Intervals during which a Generation Resource or Load Resource behind the Generation Resource Node is engaged in testing in accordance with this Section, the provisions of Section 6.6.5, Generation Resource Base-Point Deviation Charge, will not apply to the Resource being tested beginning with the Settlement Interval immediately preceding the Settlement Interval in which ERCOT issues a Dispatch Instruction that begins the test and continuing until the end of the Settlement Interval in which the test completes.  During the same Settlement Intervals for the testing period, the Generation Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, will not apply.
(7)	ERCOT may reduce the amount a Resource may contribute toward Ancillary Service if it determines unsatisfactory performance of the Resource as defined in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards.
(8)	To maintain qualification with ERCOT to provide RRS or ECRS, each Load Resource, excluding Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), will be subject to a Load interruption test at a date and time determined by ERCOT and known only to ERCOT and the affected Transmission Service Provider (TSP), to verify the ability to respond to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  To successfully pass this test, within ten minutes of the receipt of the ERCOT Dispatch Instruction by the Load Resource’s QSE, the Load Resource’s response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(a)	The Resource’s Responsibility for ECRS and RRS; or
(b)	The requested MW deployment.
The requested MW deployment will be the sum of the Resource’s Responsibility for ECRS and RRS and the telemetered additional capacity between the net power consumption and the Low Power Consumption (LPC).  If a Load Resource has responded to an actual ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with (a) and (b) above in the rolling 365-day period, ERCOT will use that response in lieu of a Load interruption test.  If a Load Resource has not responded to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with (a) and (b) above, either in a deployment event or a Load interruption test, in any rolling 365-day period, it is subject to a Load interruption test by ERCOT.  QSEs may request to have individual Load Resources aggregated for the purposes of Load interruption tests.  All performance evaluations will apply on an individual Resource basis.
(9)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Load Resource, excluding CLRs, for failure to comply with the required performance standards, based on the evaluation it performed under paragraph (4) of Section 8.1.1.4.2, Responsive Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria, or under paragraph (1)(b) of Section 8.1.1.4.4, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment.  Specifically, if a Load Resource that is providing RRS or ECRS fails to respond with at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS or ECRS within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction, that response shall be considered a failure.  Two Load Resource performance failures, either in a deployment event or a Load interruption test, within any rolling 365-day period shall result in disqualification of that Load Resource.  After six months of disqualification, the Load Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Load Resource successfully passes a new Load interruption test as specified in this Section 8.1.1.1.
(10)	To maintain qualification with ERCOT to provide RRS from Fast Frequency Response (FFR), each Resource will be subject to an FFR qualification test at a date and time determined by ERCOT and known only to ERCOT and the affected TSP as applicable, to verify the ability to respond to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  To successfully pass this test, within ten minutes of the receipt of the ERCOT Dispatch Instruction by the Resource’s QSE, the Resource’s response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 105% of the lesser of the following:
(a)	The Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS; or
(b)	The MW deployment.
The requested MW deployment for Resources capable of FFR will be the sum of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS and the additional capacity between the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) and the telemetered Low Sustained Limit (LSL).  If a Resource has responded to an actual event in compliance with items (a) and (b) above in the rolling 365-day period, ERCOT will use that response in lieu of an FFR test.  If a Resource has not responded to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with items (a) and (b) above, in either a deployment event or an FFR test, in any rolling 365-day period, it is subject to an FFR test by ERCOT.  All performance evaluations will apply on an individual Resource basis.
(11)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Resource providing FFR if that Resource has two Resource performance failures, either in a manual deployment event or a frequency triggered event, within any rolling 365-day period.  A performance failure is defined as a response less than 95% or more than 105% of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS within 15 cycles of a triggering event or within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  This shall result in disqualification of that Resource.  After six months of disqualification, a Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Resource successfully passes a new test as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.2, Responsive Reserve Qualification.
[NPRR963, NPRR1011, and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of Section 8.1.1.1 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR963 or NPRR1188; or upon system implementation of Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011:]
8.1.1.1	Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing
(1)	Each QSE and the Resource providing Ancillary Service must meet qualification criteria to operate satisfactorily with ERCOT.  ERCOT shall use the Ancillary Service qualification and testing program that is approved by TAC and included in the Operating Guides.  Each QSE for the Resources that it represents may only provide Ancillary Services on those Resources for which it has met the qualification criteria.
(2)	General capacity testing must be used to verify a Resource’s Net Dependable Capability.  Qualification tests allow the Resource and QSE to demonstrate the minimum capabilities necessary to deploy an Ancillary Service.  
(3)	A Resource may be provisionally qualified for a period of 90 days and may be eligible to participate as a Resource providing Ancillary Service.  Resources that have installed the appropriate equipment with verifiable testing data may be provisionally qualified as providers of Ancillary Service. 
(4)	A Load Resource may be provisionally qualified for a period of 90 days to participate as a Resource providing Ancillary Service, if the Load Resource is metered with an Interval Data Recorder (IDR) to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction.  A Load Resource providing Ancillary Service in Real-Time must meet the following requirements:
(a)	Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) registration of Load Resources providing Ancillary Service by the QSE; and
(b)	Load Resource telemetry is installed and tested between QSE and ERCOT.
(5)	Provisional qualification as described herein may be revoked by ERCOT at any time for any non-compliance with provisional qualification requirements.
(6)	For those Settlement Intervals during which a Generation Resource, Load Resource, or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) behind the Resource Node is engaged in testing in accordance with this Section, the provisions of Section 6.6.5, Set Point Deviation Charge, will not apply to the Resource being tested beginning with the Settlement Interval immediately preceding the Settlement Interval in which ERCOT issues a Dispatch Instruction that begins the test and continuing until the end of the Settlement Interval in which the test completes.  During the same Settlement Intervals for the testing period, the Generation Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP), Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance (CLREDP), or Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance (ESREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, will not apply. 
(7)	ERCOT may reduce the amount a Resource may contribute toward Ancillary Service if it determines unsatisfactory performance of the Resource as defined in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards.
(8)	To maintain qualification with ERCOT to provide RRS or ECRS service, each Load Resource, excluding Controllable Load Resources (CLRs), will be subject to a Load interruption test at a date and time determined by ERCOT and known only to ERCOT and the affected Transmission Service Provider (TSP), to verify the ability to respond to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  To successfully pass this test, within ten minutes of the receipt of the ERCOT Dispatch Instruction by the Load Resource’s QSE, the Load Resource’s response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(a)	The Resource’s ECRS and RRS awards, or
(b)	The requested MW deployment.
	The requested MW deployment will be the sum of the Resource’s ECRS and RRS awards, and the telemetered additional capacity between the net power consumption and the Low Power Consumption (LPC).  If a Load Resource has responded to an actual ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with (a) and (b) above in the rolling 365-day period, ERCOT will use that response in lieu of a Load interruption test.  If a Load Resource has not responded to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with (a) and (b) above, either in a deployment event or a Load interruption test, in any rolling 365-day period, it is subject to a Load interruption test by ERCOT.  QSEs may request to have individual Load Resources aggregated for the purposes of Load interruption tests.  All performance evaluations will apply on an individual Resource basis.
(9)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Load Resource, excluding CLRs, for failure to comply with the required performance standards, based on the evaluation it performed under paragraph (5) of Section 8.1.1.4.2, Responsive Reserve Energy Deployment Criteria or under paragraph (1)(c) of Section 8.1.1.4.4, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  Specifically, if a Load Resource that is providing RRS or ECRS fails to respond with at least 95% of its ECRS or RRS award within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction, that response shall be considered a failure.  Two Load Resource performance failures, either in a deployment event or a Load interruption test, within any rolling 365-day period shall result in disqualification of that Load Resource.  After six months of disqualification, the Load Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Load Resource successfully passes a new Load interruption test as specified in this Section 8.1.1.1.
(10)	To maintain qualification with ERCOT to provide RRS from Fast Frequency Response (FFR), each Resource will be subject to an FFR qualification test at a date and time determined by ERCOT and known only to ERCOT and the affected TSP as applicable, to verify the ability to respond to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  To successfully pass this test, within ten minutes of the receipt of the ERCOT Dispatch Instruction by the Resource’s QSE, the Resource’s response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 105% of the lesser of the following:
(a)	The Resource’s RRS award; or
(b)	The MW deployment.
The requested MW deployment for Resources capable of FFR will be the sum of the Resource’s RRS award and the additional capacity between the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) and the telemetered Low Sustained Limit (LSL).  If a Resource has responded to an actual event in compliance with items (a) and (b) above in the rolling 365-day period, ERCOT will use that response in lieu of an FFR test.  If a Resource has not responded to an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction in compliance with items (a) and (b) above, in either a deployment event or an FFR test, in any rolling 365-day period, it is subject to an FFR test by ERCOT.  All performance evaluations will apply on an individual Resource basis.
(11)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Resource providing FFR if that Resource has two Resource performance failures, either in a manual deployment event or a frequency triggered event, within any rolling 365-day period.  A performance failure is defined as a response less than 95% or more than 105% of the Resource’s RRS award within 15 cycles of a triggering event or within ten minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction.  This shall result in disqualification of that Resource.  After six months of disqualification, a Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Resource successfully passes a new test as specified in Section 8.1.1.2.1.2, Responsive Reserve Qualification.
8.1.1.2	General Capacity Testing Requirements
(1)	Within the first 15 days of each Season, each QSE shall provide ERCOT a Seasonal HSL for any Generation Resource with a capacity greater than ten MW that will be operated during that Season.  ERCOT shall provide an appropriate form for QSEs to submit their Seasonal HSL data.  The Seasonal HSL form shall take into account auxiliary Load and gross and net real power capability of the Generation Resource.  Each QSE shall update its COP and telemetry, as necessary, to reflect the HSL of each of its Generation Resources in a given operating interval as well as other operational limitations.  The HSL shown in the COP for a Generation Resource may not be ramp rate-limited while the Real-Time telemetered value of HSL for the Generation Resource may be ramp rate-limited by the QSE representing the Generation Resource in order for the Generation Resource to meet its HSL using the testing process described in paragraph (2) below. 
(2)	To verify that the HSL reported by telemetry is achievable, ERCOT may, at its discretion, conduct an unannounced Generation Resource test.  At a time determined solely by ERCOT, ERCOT will issue a Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the QSE to operate the designated Generation Resource at its HSL as shown in the QSE’s telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  The QSE shall immediately upon receiving the VDI release all Ancillary Service Obligations carried by the unit to be tested and shall telemeter Resource Status as “ONTEST.”  The QSE shall not be required to start the designated Generation Resource if it is not already On-Line when ERCOT announces its intent to test the Resource.  If the designated Generation Resource is operating at its LSL when ERCOT sends the VDI to begin the test, the QSE shall have up to 60 minutes to allow the Resource to reach 90% of its HSL as shown by telemetry and up to an additional 20 minutes for the Resource to reach the HSL shown by telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  This time requirement does not apply to nuclear-fueled Generation Resources.  If the designated Generation Resource is operating between its LSL and 50% of its HSL shown by telemetry when ERCOT begins the test, the QSE shall have 60 minutes for the Resource to reach its HSL.  If the Resource is operating at or above 50% of its HSL shown by telemetry when ERCOT begins the test, the QSE shall have 30 minutes for the Resource to reach its HSL.  Once the designated Generation Resource reaches its HSL, the QSE shall hold it at that output level for a minimum of 30 minutes.  The HSL for the designated Generation Resource shall be determined based on the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered by the Resource during the 30 minutes of constant output.  After each test, the QSE representing the Generation Resource will complete and submit the test form using the Net Dependable Capability and Reactive Capability (NDCRC) application located on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within two Business Days.
[NPRR1011:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	To verify that the HSL reported by telemetry is achievable, ERCOT may, at its discretion, conduct an unannounced Generation Resource test.  At a time determined solely by ERCOT, ERCOT will issue a Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the QSE to operate the designated Generation Resource at its HSL as shown in the QSE’s telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  Immediately upon receiving the VDI, the QSE shall telemeter Resource Status as “ONTEST.”  The QSE shall not be required to start the designated Generation Resource if it is not already On-Line when ERCOT announces its intent to test the Resource.  If the designated Generation Resource is operating at its LSL when ERCOT sends the VDI to begin the test, the QSE shall have up to 60 minutes to allow the Resource to reach 90% of its HSL as shown by telemetry and up to an additional 20 minutes for the Resource to reach the HSL shown by telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  This time requirement does not apply to nuclear-fueled Generation Resources.  If the designated Generation Resource is operating between its LSL and 50% of its HSL shown by telemetry when ERCOT begins the test, the QSE shall have 60 minutes for the Resource to reach its HSL.  If the Resource is operating at or above 50% of its HSL shown by telemetry when ERCOT begins the test, the QSE shall have 30 minutes for the Resource to reach its HSL.  Once the designated Generation Resource reaches its HSL, the QSE shall hold it at that output level for a minimum of 30 minutes.  The HSL for the designated Generation Resource shall be determined based on the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered by the Resource during the 30 minutes of constant output.  After each test, the QSE representing the Generation Resource will complete and submit the test form using the Net Dependable Capability and Reactive Capability (NDCRC) application located on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within two Business Days.
(3)	ERCOT may test multiple Generation Resources within a single QSE within a single 24-hour period.  However, in no case shall ERCOT test more than two Generation Resources within one QSE simultaneously.  All Resources On-Line in a Combined-Cycle Configuration will be measured on an aggregate capacity basis.  All QSEs associated with a jointly owned unit will be tested simultaneously.  Hydro, wind, and PhotoVoltaic (PV) generation will be excluded from unannounced generation capacity testing.  ERCOT shall not perform an unannounced Generation Resource test during a Watch or Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) event.  If an unannounced Generation Resource test is underway when a Watch or EEA event commences, ERCOT may cancel the test.
(4)	Should the designated Generation Resource fail to reach its HSL shown in its telemetry within the time frame set forth herein, the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered during the test shall be the basis for the new HSL for the designated Generation Resource for that Season.  The QSE shall have the opportunity to request another test as quickly as possible (at a time determined by ERCOT) and may retest up to two times per month.  The QSE may also demonstrate an increased value of HSL by operating the Generation Resource at an Output Schedule for at least 30 minutes.  In order to raise an Output Schedule above the Seasonal HSL, the QSE may set the Resource telemetered HSL equal to its output temporarily for the purposes of the demonstration tests.  After either a retest or a demonstration test, the MW capability of the Generation Resource based on the average of the MW production telemetered during the test shall be the basis for the new HSL for the designated Generation Resource for that Season.  Any requested retest must take place within three Business Days after the request for retest.
(5)	The telemetered value of HSL for the Generation Resource shall only be used for testing purposes as described in this Section or for system reliability calculations. 
(6)	A Resource Entity owning a Generation Resource operating in the synchronous condenser fast response mode to provide RRS or ECRS shall evaluate the maximum capability of the Resource each Season. 
(7)	ERCOT shall maintain historical records of unannounced Generation Resource test results, using the information contained therein to adjust the Reserve Discount Factor (RDF) subject to the approval of the appropriate TAC subcommittee.  ERCOT shall report to the Reliability and Operations Subcommittee (ROS) annually or as requested by ROS the aggregated results of such unannounced testing (excluding retests), including, but not limited to, the number and total capacity of Resources tested, the percentage of Resources that met or exceeded their HSL reported by telemetry, the percentage that failed to meet their HSL reported by telemetry, and the total MW capacity shortfall of those Resources that failed to meet their HSL reported by telemetry.
(8)	QSEs who receive a VDI to operate the designated Generation Resource for an unannounced Generation Resource test may be considered for additional compensation under Section 6.6.9, Emergency Operations Settlement.  Any unannounced Generation Resource test VDI that ERCOT issues as a result of a QSE-requested retest will not be considered for additional compensation under Section 6.6.9.
(9)	All unannounced Generation Resource test VDIs will be considered as an instructed deviation for compliance purposes.
(10)	Before the start of each Season, a QSE shall provide ERCOT a list identifying each Controllable Load Resource that is expected to operate in a Season as a provider of Ancillary Service.  Prior to the beginning of each Season, QSEs shall identify the Controllable Load Resources to be tested during the Season and the specific week of the test if known.  Any Controllable Load Resource for which the QSE desires qualification to provide Ancillary Services shall have its Net Dependable Capability verified prior to providing Ancillary Services.
(11)	ERCOT shall verify the telemetry attributes of each qualified Load Resource as follows:
(a)	ERCOT shall annually verify the telemetry attributes of each Load Resource providing RRS or ECRS using a high-set under-frequency relay.  In addition, once every two years, any Load Resource qualified to provide RRS or ECRS using a high-set under-frequency relay shall test the correct operation of the under-frequency relay or the output from the solid-state switch, whichever applies.  However, if a Load Resource’s performance has been verified through response to an actual event, the data from the event can be used to meet the annual telemetry verification requirement for that year and the biennial relay-testing requirement. 
(b)	ERCOT shall periodically validate the telemetry attributes of each Controllable Load Resource.  In the case of an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR), ERCOT will follow the validation procedures described in  Section 22, Attachment O, Requirements for Aggregate Load Resource Participation in the ERCOT Markets.  If a QSE fails to meet its telemetry validation requirements, ERCOT may suspend the QSE and/or the Controllable Load Resource from participation in the applicable services or markets.  If disqualified pursuant to this paragraph, a QSE or Controllable Load Resource may reestablish its qualification by submitting a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and by successfully passing a new ERCOT telemetry validation test.  
(12)	Telemetry values of a Load Resource may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses, based on the ERCOT-forecasted Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs).  Load Resources may be adjusted for Distribution Losses using the same distribution loss code as assigned to the ESI ID.    
(13)	A specific Load Resource to be used for the first time to provide Regulation Service, RRS, ECRS, Non-Spin, or energy by following Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) Base Points, must be tested to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction using actual Demand response as part of its qualification.  The test must take place at a time mutually selected by the QSE representing the Load Resource and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall make available its standard test document for Load Resource qualification required under this Section on the ERCOT website.
(14)	Any changes to a Load Resource including changes to its capability to provide Ancillary Service requires updates by the Load Resource to the registration information detailing the change.  For Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs) representing specific Load Resources that are located behind the NOIE Settlement Metering points, the NOIE shall provide an alternative unique descriptor of the qualified Load Resource for ERCOT’s records.
(15)	Qualification of a Resource, including a Load Resource, remains valid for that Resource in the event of a change of QSE for the Resource, provided that the new QSE demonstrates to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the new QSE has adequate communications and control capability for the Resource.
(16)	For purposes of qualifying Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs), ERCOT shall issue a unit-specific VDI for the MW amount that the QSE is requesting to qualify its QSGR to provide.  The QSE shall telemeter an ONTEST Resource Status.  The QSGR will only be qualified to provide an amount not to exceed the observed output at the end of a ten-minute test period. 
(17)	ERCOT may revoke the QSGR qualification of any QSGR for failure to comply with the following performance standard:
(a)	A QSGR, available for deployment by SCED, is deemed to have failed to start for the purpose of this performance measure if the QSGR fails to achieve at least 90% of the minimum ERCOT SCED Base Point, including zero Base Points, within ten minutes of the initial ERCOT SCED Base Point that dispatched the QSGR above zero MW output.
(b)	ERCOT may revoke a QSGR’s qualification if within a rolling 90-day period the number of QSGR failures to start, as determined by paragraph (a) above, exceeds the higher of three failures or 10% of the number of quick start mode startups made in response to SCED deployments.
(18)	If disqualified pursuant to paragraph (17) above, a QSGR may reestablish its QSGR qualification by submitting a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and by successfully passing a new ERCOT QSGR test.
(19)	If an Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is telemetering a non-zero ECRS Ancillary Service Responsibility and/or non-zero Non-Spin Ancillary Service Responsibility, to verify that the Ancillary Service Responsibility reported by telemetry is achievable based on the state of charge the Resource is maintaining in Real-Time, ERCOT may, at its discretion, conduct an unannounced ECRS/Non-Spin capability test.  At a time determined solely by ERCOT, ERCOT will issue a VDI to the QSE to operate the designated ESR an output level that delivers the total state of charge the ESR was obligated to provide based on sum of the ECRS Ancillary Service Responsibility and Non-Spin Ancillary Service Responsibility as shown in the ESR’s telemetry at the time the test is initiated.  The QSE shall immediately upon receiving the VDI release all Ancillary Service Obligations carried by the ESR to be tested and shall telemeter Resource Status as “ONTEST.”  Once the designated ESR reaches the target output level, the QSE shall hold at that output level for a minimum duration required to verify ESR’s state of charge capability to meet the ECRS Ancillary Service Responsibility and Non-Spin Ancillary Service Responsibility.  The two-hour and/or four-hour capability for the designated ESR shall be determined based on the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered by the Resource during the constant output (i.e., hold) phase of the test.  After each test, the QSE representing the ESR will complete and submit the test form using the NDCRC application located on the MIS Secure Area within two Business Days.  Should the designated ESR fail to demonstrate the state of charge level needed to meet the sum of ECRS Ancillary Service Responsibility and Non-Spin Ancillary Service Responsibility shown in its telemetry within the time frame set forth herein, the Real-Time averaged MW telemetered during the test shall be the basis for the ECRS and Non-Spin capacity that the Resource may provide.  The QSE shall have the opportunity to request another test as quickly as possible (at a time determined by ERCOT) and may retest up to two times per month.  After either a retest or a demonstration test, the average of the MW output telemetered during the test shall be the basis for the new ECRS and Non-Spin capability for the designated ESR.  Any requested retest must take place within three Business Days after the request for retest or a mutually agreeable date.
8.1.1.2.1	Ancillary Service Technical Requirements and Qualification Criteria and Test Methods
(1)	A QSE and the Resource that it represents must be qualified to provide Ancillary Services.  ERCOT shall develop and operate a qualification and testing program that meets the requirements of this Section for each Ancillary Service.  Prior to the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date, a QSE and the Resources that it represents that are qualified to provide an Ancillary Service in accordance with an effective Protocol, are deemed to be qualified to provide Ancillary Services after the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date, provided that the QSE and the Resource have been certified capable of providing an Ancillary Service by a responsible Market Participant, as determined by ERCOT.  Resources that are thus certified to provide Ancillary Services and that have a performance history determined in accordance with this Section, and that fail to meet the performance metrics described in this Section on the Texas Nodal Market Implementation Date, or thereafter, will be required to qualify in accordance with this Section before providing the Ancillary Service. 
(2)	A QSE and the Resource that it represents must be qualified in accordance with this Section as an Ancillary Service and reserve provider and at ERCOT’s discretion will be required to re-qualify to provide Ancillary Service or reserve if acceptable performance as determined in accordance with this Section has not been maintained.
[NPRR1011:  Insert paragraph (3) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	The qualification process for a Resource to provide Ancillary Service will determine whether the Resource is capable of providing Ancillary Service and the maximum quantity of Ancillary Service that the Resource is qualified to provide.  ERCOT may update the maximum quantity of RRS a Resource is qualified to provide based on actual performance of the Resource in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2.1.2, Responsive Reserve Service Qualification.
8.1.1.2.1.1	Regulation Service Qualification
(1)	A QSE control system must be capable of receiving Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) and Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) control signals from ERCOT’s Load Frequency Control (LFC) system, and of directing its Resources to respond to the control signals, in an upward and downward direction to balance Real-Time Demand and Resources.  A QSE providing Reg-Up or Reg-Down shall provide communications equipment to receive telemetered control deployments of power from ERCOT.   
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(1)	A QSE control system must be capable of receiving Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) and Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) control signals from ERCOT’s Load Frequency Control (LFC) system, and of directing its Resources to respond to the control signals, in an upward and downward direction to balance Real-Time Demand and Resources.  A QSE representing Resources qualified to provide Reg-Up or Reg-Down shall provide communications equipment to receive telemetered control deployments of power from ERCOT.
(2) 	A QSE shall demonstrate to ERCOT that they have the ability to switch control to constant frequency operation as specified in the Operating Guides.  ERCOT’s direction to the QSE to operate on constant frequency will be considered a Dispatch Instruction.   
(3) 	A QSE providing Reg-Up or Reg-Down shall provide ERCOT with the data requirements of Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements.  Resources providing Reg-Up or Reg-Down must be capable of delivering the full amount of regulating capacity offered to ERCOT within five minutes.  
(4)	A Resource providing Fast Responding Regulation Service (FRRS) shall be capable of independently detecting and recording system frequency with an accuracy of at least one mHz and a resolution of no less than 32 samples per second.  The Resource shall also be capable of measuring and recording MW output with a resolution of no less than 32 samples per second.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1014:  Delete paragraph (4) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014; and renumber accordingly.]
(5)	A Reg-Up and Reg-Down qualification test for each Resource is conducted during a continuous 60-minute period agreed on in advance by the QSE and ERCOT.  QSEs may qualify a Resource to provide Reg-Up or Reg-Down, or both, in separate testing.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.
(b)	For the 60-minute duration of the test, when market and reliability conditions allow, the ERCOT Control Area Operator shall send a random sequence of increasing ramp, hold, and decreasing ramp control signals to the QSE for a specific Resource.  ERCOT shall maintain a duration interval, for each increasing ramp, hold, or decreasing ramp sequence, of no less than two minutes.  The control signals may not request Resource performance beyond the HSL, LSL, and ramp rate limit agreed on prior to the test.  During the test, ERCOT shall structure the test sequence such that at least one five-minute test interval is used to test the Resource’s ability to achieve the entire amount of Reg-Up or Reg-Down requested for qualification.  
(c)	ERCOT shall measure and record the average real power output for each minute of the Resource(s) being tested represented by the QSE.  During at least one five minute duration interval selected to evaluate each of the Reg-Up and Reg-Down amounts being tested, the Generation/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP/CLREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, over the entire five minute interval must be less than or equal to 3.5%.  Additionally, in all other test sequence intervals, the Resource’s measured GREDP/CLREDP must be less than or equal to 5% as calculated for the entire duration of each test interval.
[NPRR963 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	ERCOT shall measure and record the average real power output for each minute of the Resource(s) being tested represented by the QSE.  
(i) 	During at least one five minute duration interval selected to evaluate each of the Reg-Up and Reg-Down amounts being tested, the Generation/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance (GREDP/CLREDP/ESREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, over the entire five minute interval must be less than or equal to 3.5%.  
(ii) 	Additionally, in all other test sequence intervals, the Resource’s measured GREDP/CLREDP/ESREDP must be less than or equal to 5% as calculated for the entire duration of each test interval.
(iii)	During at least one five-minute duration interval selected to evaluate each of the Reg-Up and Reg-Down amounts being tested, the Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance (ESREDP) calculated in accordance with Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, over the entire five minute interval must be less than or equal to 3.0%.  
(iv)	For an Energy Storage Resource (ESR), in all other test sequence intervals, the Resource’s measured ESREDP must be less than or equal to 3.0% as calculated for the entire duration of each test interval.
(d)	On successful demonstration of the above test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing Regulation Service and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource.
(6)	A QSE may also qualify a Resource to provide Fast Responding Regulation Up Service (FRRS-Up), Fast Responding Regulation Down Service (FRRS-Down), or both.  In addition to the test criteria described in paragraph (5) above, ERCOT shall verify the following capabilities through testing:
(a)	The Resource will be required to demonstrate that it can deploy within 60 cycles of either (i) receipt of a deployment signal from ERCOT, or (ii) a deviation of frequency in excess of +/-0.09 Hz from 60 Hz.
(b)	Upon deployment, the Resource will be required to demonstrate that it can sustain the deployment for a minimum of eight minutes at a minimum level of 95% and a maximum level of 110% of the proposed maximum capacity obligation.
(c)	ERCOT shall use the Resource’s high-resolution recorded frequency and MW output data to determine whether the Resource met its performance obligations during the test.
(d)	On successful demonstration of the above test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing FRRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource.
(e) 	A QSE representing a Resource qualified to provide FRRS shall not offer to provide more FRRS than the maximum capacity obligation that the Resource is qualified to provide, as shown in the certificate provided to the QSE and the Resource.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(5)	The maximum quantity of Reg-Up or Reg-Down that an individual Resource is qualified to provide is limited to the amount of Ancillary Service that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.
8.1.1.2.1.2	Responsive Reserve Qualification
(1)	RRS may be provided by:  
(a)	On-Line Generation Resource capacity; 
(b)	Resources capable of providing FFR;
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode;
(d)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays; and
(e)	Controllable Load Resources (CLRs).
(2)	The amount of RRS provided by individual Generation Resources or CLRs is limited by the ERCOT-calculated maximum MW amount of RRS for the Generation Resource or CLR subject to its verified droop performance as described in the Nodal Operating Guide.  The default value for any newly qualified Generation Resource or CLR shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide.
(3)	A QSE’s Load Resource must be loaded and capable of unloading the scheduled amount of RRS within ten minutes of instruction by ERCOT and must either be immediately responsive to system frequency or be interrupted by action of under-frequency relays with settings as specified by the Operating Guides.
(4)	Any QSE providing RRS shall provide communications equipment to provide ERCOT with telemetry for the output of the Resource.
(5)	Resources capable of FFR providing RRS must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status and status of the frequency detection device. 
(6)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility.  Each Resource providing RRS must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(7)	Generation Resources providing RRS shall have their Governors in service.
(8)	Generation Resources and Resources capable of FFR providing RRS shall have a Governor droop setting that is no greater than 5.0%.  
(9)	Resources may be provisionally qualified by ERCOT to provide RRS for 90 days.  Within the 90-day provisional window, a Resource must successfully complete one of the Governor tests identified in the Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment C, Turbine Governor Speed Tests, before being declared fully qualified to provide RRS.
(10)	A qualification test for each Resource to provide RRS is conducted during a continuous eight-hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	At any time during the window, which is selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE, ERCOT shall notify the QSE that it is to provide an amount of RRS from its Resource to be qualified equal to the amount for which the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For Generation Resources desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall monitor the QSE’s telemetry of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Schedule for an update within 15 seconds.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2, Responsive Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide RRS.
(c)	For CLRs desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the CLR given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the CLR’s qualification to provide RRS.  
(d)	For Load Resources, excluding CLRs, desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2.
(e)	On successful demonstration of all test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing RRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource Entity.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of Section 8.1.1.2.1.2 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1014; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011:]
8.1.1.2.1.2	Responsive Reserve Qualification
(1)	RRS may be provided by:  
(a)	On-Line Generation Resource capacity; 
(b)	Resources capable of providing FFR;
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode;
(d)	Load Resources controlled by high-set under-frequency relays;
(e) 	 Controllable Load Resources (CLRs); and
(f) 	Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).
(2)	The amount of RRS provided by individual Generation Resources, CLRs, or ESRs is limited by the ERCOT-calculated maximum MW amount of RRS for the Generation Resource, CLR, or ESR subject to its verified droop performance as described in the Nodal Operating Guide.  The default value for any newly qualified Generation Resource, CLR, or ESR shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide.
(3)	A QSE’s Load Resource must be loaded and capable of unloading the scheduled amount of RRS within ten minutes of instruction by ERCOT and must either be immediately responsive to system frequency or be interrupted by action of under-frequency relays with settings as specified by the Operating Guides.
(4)	Any QSE representing a Resource qualified to provide RRS shall provide communications equipment to provide ERCOT with telemetry for the output of the Resource.
(5)	Resources capable of FFR providing RRS must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status and status of the frequency detection device. 
(6)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the RRS award.  Each Resource providing RRS must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(7)	Generation Resources offering to provide RRS shall have their Governors in service.
(8)	Generation Resources and Resources capable of FFR providing RRS shall have a Governor droop setting that is no greater than 5.0%.  
(9)	Resources may be provisionally qualified by ERCOT to provide RRS for 90 days.  Within the 90-day provisional window, a Resource must successfully complete one of the Governor tests identified in the Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment C, Turbine Governor Speed Tests, before being declared fully qualified to provide RRS.
(10)	For Resources providing RRS and available for dispatch by SCED, the maximum quantity of RRS that a Resource is qualified to provide is limited to the amount of RRS that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.  For all other Resources excluding non-CLRs providing FFR, the maximum quantity of RRS that a Resource is qualified to provide is limited to the amount of RRS that can be sustained by the Resource for at least one hour.  The maximum quantity of FFR that any non-CLR qualified to provide FFR is limited to the amount of FFR that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.
(11)	A qualification test for each Resource to provide RRS is conducted during a continuous eight-hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	At any time during the window, which is selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE, ERCOT shall notify the QSE that it is to provide an amount of RRS from its Resource to be qualified equal to the amount for which the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For Generation Resources desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall monitor the QSE’s telemetry of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Schedule for an update within 15 seconds.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2, Responsive Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide RRS.
(c)	For CLRs desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the CLR given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the CLR’s qualification to provide RRS.  
(d)	For Load Resources, excluding CLRs, desiring qualification to provide RRS, ERCOT shall deploy RRS indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.2.
(e)	On successful demonstration of all test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing RRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource Entity.
8.1.1.2.1.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Qualification
(1)	Each Resource providing Non-Spin must be capable of being synchronized and ramped to its Ancillary Service Schedule for Non-Spin within 30 minutes.  Non-Spin may be provided from Generation Resource capacity that can ramp within 30 minutes or Load Resources capable of unloading within 30 minutes.  Non-Spin may only be provided from capacity that is not fulfilling any other energy or capacity commitment.
(2)	A Load Resource providing Non-Spin must provide a telemetered output signal. 
(3)	Each Generation Resource and Load Resource providing Non-Spin must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(4)	QSEs using a Controllable Load Resource to provide Non-Spin must be capable of responding to ERCOT Dispatch Instructions in a similar manner to QSEs using Generation Resource to provide Non-Spin.
(5)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility.  Each Generation Resource and Controllable Load Resource providing Non-Spin must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(6)	For any Resource requesting qualification for Non-Spin, a qualification test for each Resource to provide Non-Spin is conducted during a continuous eight hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE. ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements. 
(a)	At any time during the window (selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE), ERCOT shall notify the QSE by using the messaging system and requesting that the QSE provide an amount of Non-Spin from each  Resource equal to the amount for which the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For Generation Resources: during the test window, ERCOT shall send a message to the QSE representing a Generation Resources to deploy Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall monitor the adjustment of the Generation Resource’s Non-Spin Ancillary Service Schedule within five minutes for Resources On-Line.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.3, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide Non-Spin.
(c)	For Load Resources, ERCOT shall send an instruction to deploy Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall measure the Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.3.
[NPRR1011:  Replace Section 8.1.1.2.1.3 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
8.1.1.2.1.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Qualification
(1)	Each Off-Line Resource being offered in to provide Non-Spin must be capable of being synchronized and ramped to its Ancillary Service award for Non-Spin within 30 minutes.  Non-Spin may be provided from Generation Resource capacity that can ramp within 30 minutes or Load Resources capable of unloading within 30 minutes.  Non-Spin may only be provided from capacity that is not fulfilling any other energy or capacity commitment.
(2)	All Resources qualified to participate in SCED are also qualified to provide Non-Spin when the Resource is On-Line.  The amount of Non-Spin for which the Resource is qualified when On-Line is limited to the amount of capacity that can be ramped or unloaded within 30 minutes.
(3)	A Controllable Load Resource offering to provide Non-Spin must be qualified to participate in SCED and must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status. 
(4)	Each Resource providing Non-Spin when Off-Line or providing Non-Spin as a Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(5)	QSEs using a Controllable Load Resource to provide Non-Spin must be capable of responding to ERCOT Dispatch Instructions in a similar manner to QSEs using Generation Resource to provide Non-Spin.
(6)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service award.
(7)	For any Resource requesting qualification for providing Non-Spin when Off-Line or providing Non-Spin as a Load Resource other than a Controllable Load Resource, a qualification test for each Resource to provide Non-Spin is conducted during a continuous eight hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE. ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements. 
(a)	At any time during the window (selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE), ERCOT shall notify the QSE by using the messaging system and requesting that the QSE provide an amount of Non-Spin from each  Resource equal to the amount for which the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For the Resources being tested during the test window, ERCOT shall send a message to the QSE representing a Resource to deploy Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.3, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide Non-Spin.
(8)	The maximum quantity of Non-Spin that an individual Resource is qualified to provide is limited to the amount of Non-Spin that can be sustained by the Resource for at least one hour.
8.1.1.2.1.4	Voltage Support Service Qualification
(1)	The Resource Entity must verify and maintain its stated Reactive Power capability for each of its Generation Resources and ESRs providing Voltage Support Service (VSS), as required by the Operating Guides.  Generation Resources and ESRs providing VSS reactive capability limits shall be specified as follows:  lagging reactive capability should be specified using the Summer/Fall voltage profile, and leading capability specified using the Winter/Spring voltage profile.
(2)	The Resource Entity shall conduct reactive capacity qualification tests to verify the maximum leading and lagging reactive capability of all Generation Resources and ESRs required to provide VSS.  Reactive capability tests are performed during the resource commissioning process and at a minimum of once every five years or within 12 months following the discovery of a change that affects its real power or Reactive Power capability by more than 10% of the last value provided by the Resource Entity via the Resource Registration process and is expected to last more than six months.  Mothballed Generation Resources or ESRs that have not been tested within the last five years shall be verified within 12 calendar months upon return to service.  ERCOT may require additional testing if it has information indicating that current data is inaccurate.  The Resource Entity is not obligated to place Generation Resources or ESRs On-Line solely for the purposes of testing.  The reactive capability tests must be conducted at a time agreed to in advance by the Resource Entity, its QSE, the applicable TSP, and ERCOT.
(3)	Leading and lagging reactive operating limits must be demonstrated following the reactive power verification test procedure as more fully described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 3.3.2, Unit Reactive Capability Requirements.
(4)	The Resource Entity shall perform the Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR) tests and shall supply AVR data as specified in the Operating Guides.  The AVR tests must be performed on initial qualification.  The AVR tests must be conducted at a time agreed on in advance by the Resource Entity, its QSE, the applicable TSP, and ERCOT.
8.1.1.2.1.5	System Black Start Capability Qualification and Testing
(1)	A Resource is qualified to be a Black Start Resource if it has met the following requirements:
(a)	Verified control communication path performance;
(b)	Verified primary and alternate voice circuits for receipt of instructions;
(c)	Passed the “Basic Starting Test” as defined below;
(d)	Passed the “Line-Energizing Test” as defined below; 
(e)	Passed the “Load-Carrying Test” as defined below; 
(f)	Passed the “Next Start Resource Test” as defined below;
(g)	Provided an attestation, in the form required by ERCOT, of Black Start Service (BSS) Back-up Fuel that will support the Resource for a minimum of 72 hours at maximum output, except to the extent ERCOT has waived this requirement;
(h)	Passed the “BSS Back-up Fuel Switching Test” as defined below, unless ERCOT has waived the BSS Back-up Fuel requirement;
(i)	If not starting itself, has an ERCOT-approved firm standby power contract with deliverability under Blackout circumstances from a non-ERCOT Control Area that can be finalized upon selection as a Black Start Resource; 
(j)	If not starting itself, has an ERCOT approved agreement with the necessary TSPs for access to another power pool, for coordination of switching during a Blackout or Partial Blackout, for coordination of maintenance through the ERCOT Outage Scheduler for all non-redundant transmission startup feeds;
(k)	If dependent upon non-ERCOT transmission resources, agreements providing this Transmission Service have been provided in the proposal; and
(l)	Demonstrated to ERCOT’s satisfaction that the Resource has successfully completed remediation to any weather-related limitation disclosed as part of the BSS bid.
(2)	On successful demonstration of system BSS capability, ERCOT shall certify that the Black Start Resource is capable of providing system BSS capacity and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the Resource Entity of the Black Start Resource.  Qualification shall be valid for the time frames set forth below.  Except under extenuating circumstances, as reasonably determined by ERCOT, all qualification testing for the next year of BSS must be completed by June 1st of each year.  
(3)	ERCOT may limit the number of qualification retests allowed.  Qualification retesting is required only for the aspect of system BSS capability for which the Black Start Resource failed.  If a Black Start Resource under an existing Black Start Agreement does not successfully re-qualify within two months of failing a test described herein, ERCOT shall decertify the Black Start Resource for the remainder of the calendar year as described in Section 7, Black Start Decertification, of Section 22, Attachment D, Standard Form Black Start Agreement.  The following tests are required for BSS qualification:
(a)	The “Basic Starting Test” includes the following:
(i)	The basic ability of the Black Start Resource to start itself, or start from a normally open interconnection to another provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection, without support from the ERCOT System;
(ii)	Annual testing, either as a stand-alone test or part of the Line-Energizing and Load-Carrying Tests, and the test is performed during a one-week period agreed to in advance by the Black Start Resource and ERCOT and must not cause outage to ERCOT Customer Load or the availability of other Resources to the ERCOT market;
(iii)	Confirmation of the dates of the test with the Black Start Resource by ERCOT;
(iv)	Isolation of the Black Start Resource, including all auxiliary Loads, from the ERCOT System, except for the transmission that connects the Resource to a provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection if the startup power is supplied by a firm standby contract.  Black Start Resources starting with the assistance of a provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection through a firm standby agreement will connect to provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection, start-up, carry internal Load, disconnect from the provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection if not supplied through a black-start capable Direct Current Tie (DC Tie), and continue equivalently to what is required of other Black Start Resources;
(v)	The ability of the Black Start Resource to start without assistance from the ERCOT System, except for the transmission that connects the Resource to a provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection if the startup power is supplied by a firm standby contract; 
(vi)	The ability of the Black Start Resource to remain stable (in both frequency and voltage) while supplying only its own auxiliary Loads or Loads in the immediate area for at least 30 minutes; 
(vii)	The Black Start Resource must have verified that its Volts/Hz relay, over-excitation limiter, and under-excitation limiter are set properly and that no protection devices will trip the Black Start Resource within the required reactive range.  The Resource Entity for the Black Start Resource shall provide ERCOT with data to verify these settings; and
(viii)	Each Black Start Resource must pass a Basic Starting Test once each calendar year.
(b)	The “Line-Energizing Test” must be conducted at a time agreed on by the Black Start Resource, TSP or Distribution Service Provider (DSP), and ERCOT and includes the following:
(i)	Energizing transmission with the Black Start Resource when conditions permit as determined by the TSP or DSP but at least once every three years;
(ii)	De-energizing sufficient transmission in such manner that when energized by the Black Start Resource it demonstrates the Black Start Resource’s ability to energize enough transmission to deliver to the Loads the Resource’s output that ERCOT’s restoration plan requires the Black Start Resource to supply.  ERCOT shall be responsible for transmission connections and operations that are compatible with the capabilities of the Black Start Resource;
(iii)	Conducting a Basic Starting Test;
(iv)	Energizing transmission with the Black Start Resource of the previously de-energized transmission, while monitoring frequency and voltages at both ends of the line.  Alternatively, if ERCOT agrees, the transmission line may be connected to the Black Start Resource before starting, allowing the Resource to energize the line as it comes up to speed; 
(v)	Stable operation of the Black Start Resource (in both frequency and voltage) while supplying only its auxiliary Loads or external Loads for at least 30 minutes;
(vi)	This test may be performed together with the Basic Starting Test in one 30-minute interval; and
(vii)	Each Black Start Resource must pass a Line-Energizing Test once every three years.
(c)	The “Load-Carrying Test” shall utilize the Load agreed to between ERCOT, TSP and the Black Start Resource.  Testing shall occur as conditions permit, at a time agreed on by the Black Start Resource, TSP or DSP, and ERCOT, and includes the following:
(i)	Stable operation of the Black Start Resource (in both frequency and voltage) while supplying restoration power to Load that is not identified as auxiliary Load of the Resource and is allowed to be auxiliary Load of adjacent facilities; 
(ii)	Conducting a Basic Starting Test;
(iii)	Conducting a Line-Energizing Test when required; 
(iv)	Under the direction of ERCOT or the TSP operator, the Black Start Resource shall demonstrate the Black Start Resource’s capability to supply the required Load, while maintaining voltage and frequency for at least 30 minutes;
(v)	This test may be performed together with the Basic Starting Test and Line-Energizing Test when required in one 30-minute interval; and
(vi)	Qualification under the Load-Carrying Test is valid for four calendar years.
(d)	“Next Start Resource Test”:
(i)	The ability of a Black Start Resource to start up the next start unit’s largest required motor while continuing to remain stable and control voltage and frequency shall be tested.  This test shall be repeated when a new next start unit is selected;
(ii)	To pass the test: 
(A)	The potential Black Start Resource must start the next start unit (as determined by ERCOT), or start the next start unit’s largest required motor and satisfied the next start unit’s minimum startup Load requirements; or 
(B)	The Resource Entity shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of ERCOT through simulation studies conducted by the Resource Entity or a qualified third party, that the potential Black Start Resource is capable of starting the next start unit’s largest required motor while meeting the next start unit’s minimum startup Load requirements.  
(iii)	Potential Black Start Resources may request from ERCOT the information detailed in paragraph (B) above of the next start unit prior to the satisfaction of this requirement.  ERCOT shall request this information from the designated next start unit.  Such data, if requested by ERCOT, shall be provided by the QSE or Resource Entity representing the next start unit to ERCOT within 30 days.  Such information shall be considered Protected Information by the requesting Resource Entity;
(iv)	If a physical test is performed, the test shall commence with a Basic Starting Test, followed by a Line-Energizing Test when required and a Load-Carrying Test as a stand-alone test or part of the Next Start Resource Test;
(v)	If a physical test is performed, the Black Start Resource must remain stable (in both voltage and frequency) and controlling voltage for 30 minutes;
(vi)	If a physical test is performed, this test may be performed together with the Basic Starting Test, Line-Energizing Test when required, and Load-Carrying Test in one 30-minute interval; and
(vii)	Each Black Start Resource must pass the Next Start Resource Test once every four calendar years.
(e)	The “BSS Back-up Fuel Switching Test” shall:
(i)	Demonstrate a Black Start Resource’s ability to successfully switch to a BSS Back-up Fuel source;
(ii)	Demonstrate the ability of the Black Start Resource to start itself, or start from a normally open interconnection to another provider not inside the ERCOT interconnection, without support from the ERCOT System and while operating on the BSS Back-up Fuel source.  The Black Start Resource may start on its primary fuel source, if necessary, but must transition to the BSS Back-up Fuel source within the timeframe indicated in its proposal;
(iii)	Demonstrate the ability of the Black Start Resource to remain stable (in both frequency and voltage) while operating on BSS Back-up Fuel source and supplying only its own auxiliary Loads or Loads in the immediate area for at least ten minutes; and
(iv)	Demonstrate that there is a sufficient amount of BSS Back-up Fuel to satisfy the requirement in paragraph (10) of Section 3.14.2, Black Start.
(f)	The BSS Back-up Fuel Switching Test will be conducted on odd numbered years and may, at ERCOT’s discretion, also be:
(i)	Performed as part of the Basic Starting Test while operating on BSS Back-up Fuel; or 
(ii)	As a stand-alone test.
(4)	Each qualified Black Start Resource shall perform a Black Start Resource Availability Test quarterly unless the Black Start Resource has successfully started and operated at LSL or higher for at least four consecutive Settlement Intervals during the quarter.  The Black Start Resource’s cost to perform a Black Start Availability Test may be a component of the overall bid for BSS but ERCOT will not separately compensate QSEs representing Black Start Resources for such testing.  ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may grant an exemption of the Black Start Resource Availability Test for QSEs whose Black Start Resources have responded as instructed by ERCOT during an EEA event.
(5)	The Black Start Resource Availability Test shall be scheduled by ERCOT.  Upon receipt of notification for a Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall send confirmation to ERCOT of its intent to comply with the test or submit a request to reschedule along with justification for the request.
(6)	ERCOT shall provide the QSE representing the Black Start Resource two-hour notice in order to allow the QSE time to update its COP.  The QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall show the Resource as “ONTEST” in its COP and through its Real-Time telemetry for the duration of the test.  As part of the Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall start the Black Start Resource and operate it at or above its LSL for at least four consecutive Settlement Intervals.  After completion of the Black Start Resource Availability Test the QSE will update its COP to reflect their current status.
(7)	Upon completion of the Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall complete and file a Black Start Resource Availability Test report with ERCOT.  If the Black Start Resource wants to use a successful start and normal operation to satisfy the quarterly reporting requirement, it must provide the necessary information for the start and normal operation on a Black Start Resource Availability Test report.  The report form shall be provided by ERCOT.
(8)	A Black Start Resource Availability Test is deemed to be successful if the Black Start Resource comes On-Line within the time specified in the Black Start Resource’s Request for Proposal response submitted to ERCOT and operates at a minimum level as agreed to by ERCOT and the QSE representing the Black Start Resource for at least four consecutive Settlement Intervals.
(9)	If the Black Start Resource fails to successfully start during the Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall immediately update its Availability Plan for that Black Start Resource showing zero availability.  The QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall not receive the Hourly Standby Fee for BSS effective from the date of the failed Black Start Resource Availability Test.  The QSE representing the Black Start Resource may schedule a second Black Start Resource Availability Test, subject to ERCOT approval, to be completed within ten Business Days of the date of the failed Black Start Resource Availability Test unless a later date is agreed to by ERCOT.  The cost of the second Black Start Resource test will be borne solely by the QSE representing the Black Start Resource. 
(10)	If the Black Start Resource successfully passes the second Black Start Resource Availability Test, the QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall resume receipt of the Hourly Standby Fee beginning on the date of the successful Black Start Resource Availability Test.
(11)	If the Black Start Resource fails a second Black Start Resource Availability Test within the quarter, it shall immediately be disqualified from providing BSS and shall receive no further compensation under the Black Start Service Agreement.  In addition, ERCOT shall claw-back all Hourly Standby Fee payments made to the QSE representing the Black Start Resource since its last successful Black Start Resource Availability Test or its last successful start and operation under normal system conditions, whichever is later.  The clawed-back Hourly Standby Fee payments shall be uplifted by ERCOT to Loads on a Load Ratio Share (LRS) basis.  ERCOT may, at its sole discretion, consider allowing the Black Start Resource to perform an additional Black Start Resource Availability Test.  ERCOT may also, at its sole discretion, seek to procure additional Black Start Resources to replace the disqualified Black Start Resource.
(12)	A QSE representing the Black Start Resource shall update its Availability Plan for a Black Start Resource to show zero if the Black Start Resource fails to perform when ERCOT has issued a Dispatch Instruction to come On-Line any time other than for a Blackout.  The Black Start Resource shall continue to be shown as unavailable until it successfully starts under normal operations or completes a successful Black Start Resource Availability Test.
(13)	If the Black Start Resource fails to perform successfully during an actual Blackout and the Black Start Resource has been declared available, as defined in Section 22, Attachment D, ERCOT shall:
(a)	Decertify the Black Start Resource for the remainder of the Black Start Agreement contract term; and
(b)	Claw-back 100% of the Hourly Standby Fee paid to the QSE representing the Black Start Resource for all the Operating Days since its last successful Black Start Resource Availability Test or its last successful start and operation under normal system conditions, whichever is later. 
8.1.1.2.1.6	Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource Qualification, Testing, Decertification, and Recertification
(1)	Generation Resources that meet the following requirements are eligible to provide Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS) and may be selected in the procurement process for FFSS.  Both the primary Generation Resource and any alternate Generation Resources, as specified in the FFSS Offer Submission Form, must meet the following requirements prior to submitting an FFSS Offer Submission Form:
(a)	Successfully demonstrates dual fuel capability, the ability to establish and burn an alternative onsite stored fuel, and has onsite fuel storage capability in an amount that satisfies the minimum FFSS capability requirements, as described in paragraph (2) below;
(b)	Has an onsite natural gas or fuel oil storage capability or off-site natural gas storage where the Resource Entity and/or QSE owns and controls the natural gas storage and pipeline to deliver the required amount of reserve natural gas to the Generation Resource from the storage facility in an amount that satisfies the minimum FFSS capability requirements, as defined in paragraph (2) below; or
(c)	Meets the following requirements:  
(i)	The Generation Entity for the Generation Resource (or an Affiliate of such Generation Entity) either owns a storage facility with, or has a Firm Gas Storage Agreement for, sufficient natural gas storage capacity for the offered Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the request for proposal (RFP); 
(ii)	The Generation Entity for the Generation Resource (or an Affiliate of such Generation Entity) must own and have good title to sufficient natural gas in the storage facility for the offered Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for at least the duration requirement specified in the RFP, and must commit to maintain such quantity of natural gas in storage at all times during the obligation period; and
(iii)	The Generation Entity for the Generation Resource (or an Affiliate of such Generation Entity) must have entered into a Firm Transportation Agreement on an FFSS Qualifying Pipeline, or multiple Firm Transportation Agreements on multiple Qualifying Pipelines, and: 
(A)	Each Firm Transportation Agreement must have a maximum daily contract quantity sufficient to transport the quantity of natural gas described above from the storage facility to the Generation Resource in a quantity that is sufficient to allow generation of the offered FFSS MW for at least the duration requirement specified in the RFP;
(B)	At least one of the Firm Transportation Agreements must contain a primary receipt point that is the point of withdrawal for the storage facility used to comply with paragraph (i) above; 
(C)	At least one of the Firm Transportation Agreements must contain a primary delivery point that permits delivery of the natural gas directly to the Generation Resource (including through a plant line or other dedicated lateral);
(D)	Each Firm Transportation Agreement must have a term that includes each hour of November 15 through March 15, i.e., during the FFSS obligation period; and
(E)	If multiple Firm Transportation Agreements will be used, the point of delivery for each Firm Transportation Agreement, other than the Firm Transportation Agreement that satisfies the requirements set forth in paragraph (C) above, must be a primary receipt point under another Firm Transportation Agreement such that there is a complete path for firm transportation service from the storage facility to the Generation Facility.
(iv)	If the Generation Entity will utilize a contractual right to firm gas storage capacity on a third-party system under a Firm Gas Storage Agreement to comply with paragraph (i) above rather than a self-owned physical gas storage facility to qualify, then the Firm Gas Storage Agreement must have: 
(A)	A term that includes each hour of November 15 through March 15, i.e., during the FFSS obligation period; 
(B)	A maximum storage quantity not less than the amount of natural gas needed to allow the Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the RFP;
(C)	A maximum daily withdrawal quantity that permits the Generation Entity (or an Affiliate) to withdraw from storage a daily quantity of natural gas sufficient to allow the Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the RFP; and
(D)	A point of withdrawal that is a primary receipt point under its Firm Transportation Agreement.
(v)	If the Generation Entity will utilize storage owned by it or an Affiliate to comply with paragraph (i) above, then the Generation Entity must certify that for the entire obligation period it or its Affiliate, as applicable, retains the rights to: 
(A)	Sufficient storage capacity in its facility to store not less than the amount of natural gas needed to allow the Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the RFP;  
(B)	Withdraw from its storage a daily quantity of natural gas sufficient to allow the Generation Resource to deliver the offered MW for the duration requirement specified in the RFP; and
(C)	Withdraw from its storage facility at a point of withdrawal that is a primary receipt point under its Firm Transportation Agreement.
(vi)	The MW offered by the QSE for the Generation Resource may not be less than the Generation Resource’s LSL.
(vii)	The Generation Entity for the Generation Resource may satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (i) through (v) above through use of a single, bundled agreement providing for gas supply, storage, and transportation service, as long as the bundled agreement satisfies the requirements of the definitions of Firm Transportation Agreement and Firm Gas Storage Agreement, the requirements in paragraphs (ii), (iii)(A), (iii)(D), (iv)(A), (iv)(B), and (iv)(C) above, and has a primary delivery point that permits delivery of the gas directly to the Generation Resource (including through a plant line or other dedicated lateral).
(d)	A Generation Resource may participate as a Firm Fuel Supply Service Resource (FFSSR) under only one of paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) above.
(e)	Successfully demonstrates the ability to provide FFSS in order to maintain Resource availability in the event of a natural gas curtailment or other fuel supply disruption consistent with qualifying technologies identified by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).
(2)	The minimum FFSS capability requirement is the volume of fuel necessary to operate the Generation Resource at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP.  This MW value must be greater than or equal to the Generation Resource’s LSL and is a limit on the MW quantity of FFSS that can be offered for the Generation Resource in the FFSS Offer Submission Form.  
(3)	A Generation Resource will not be considered qualified to provide FFSS if, in a prior obligation period, the Generation Resource was decertified per paragraph (18) below.  However, such Generation Resource may nevertheless be considered qualified to provide FFSS if the Generation Resource: 
(a)	Has subsequently been recertified, as provided in paragraph (22) below; or 
(b)	The QSE representing the Generation Resource submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT and has agreement with ERCOT on that plan.
(4)	A Generation Entity may, but is not required to, submit in writing a proposed form of Firm Gas Storage Agreement or Firm Transportation Agreement (whether to be entered into by the Generation Entity or an Affiliate thereof) to ERCOT for review to be certified as an FFSS Qualified Contract in accordance with such policies and procedures as ERCOT may develop or require from time to time consistent with the requirements of the ERCOT Protocols.
(a)	ERCOT may, but is not obligated to, undertake a review of such agreement and, if acceptable, certify in writing such agreement as an FFSS Qualified Contract.  The decision whether to certify such agreement as an FFSS Qualified Contract shall be in ERCOT’s sole discretion.
(b)	To the extent that any such agreement is so certified by ERCOT, it shall constitute an FFSS Qualified Contract, and a Generation Entity may rely upon such certification for purposes of qualifying as an FFSSR under paragraph (1)(c) above.  Any material change to the ERCOT certified form of an existing FFSS Qualified Contract that affects the requirements of a firm natural gas FFSSR shall require a re-certification by ERCOT.  For the avoidance of doubt, a Firm Gas Storage Agreement or Firm Transportation Agreement meeting the requirements of the natural gas FFSSR is not required to be certified as an FFSS Qualified Contract.
(5)	A QSE representing a Generation Resource that will be offered to provide FFSS as a primary Generation Resource or an alternate Generation Resource must annually demonstrate each offered Generation Resource’s capability to use reserved fuel sources identified in paragraphs (1)(a) through (1)(c) above and sustain its output for 60 minutes at the MW value equal to the QSE’s desired level of FFSS qualification for the Resource.  The maximum MW of FFSS that can be offered for the designated Resource by the QSE must be limited to the average Real-Time net real power (in MW) telemetered for the Resource during the demonstration period.  Each QSE representing an FFSSR or prospective FFSSR must annually complete the test or successfully deploy at the maximum awarded MW amount for at least the demonstration period and inform ERCOT by August 15 of each year.  In order to complete this annual process, the QSE representing the Generation Resource(s) shall:
(a)	If qualifying by a self-test, coordinate the test with the ERCOT control room and show the Resource as having a Resource Status of “ONTEST” in its COP and through its Real-Time telemetry for the duration of the demonstration; and
(b)	Submit a Resource FFSS qualification form with the date and time of the self-test or the successful deployment that the QSE would like considered for qualification.
(6)	A QSE representing an FFSSR must ensure the full awarded FFSS capability is available by November 15 of each year awarded in the RFP.
(7)	A QSE representing an FFSSR shall update the Availability Plan for a Generation Resource to show it is unavailable to provide FFSS if it is not available to come On-Line or generate using reserved fuel.  The QSE representing an FFSSR must submit an Availability Plan for any alternate Generation Resource that were designated in the FFSS Offer Submission Form.  The QSE shall continue to show the Generation Resource is unavailable to provide FFSS in the Availability Plan until it can successfully come On-Line or generate using the reserved fuel.
(8)	An FFSSR that is not available to come On-Line shall inform the ERCOT control room as soon as practicable and update the FFSSR Availability Plan within 60 minutes of identifying the unavailability.
(9)	If the FFSSR is not available for the hours for which ERCOT has issued a Watch for winter weather, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 90 days, unless the FFSSR exhausted the fuel reserved to generate at the FFSS MW award level for the duration requirement specified in the RFP, including any fuel that was restocked following final approval or instruction from ERCOT, or the FFSSR exhausted emission hours allocated for the FFSSR, as specified in the FFSS Offer Submission Form.  Evidence of an FFSSR not being available includes, but is not limited to, an Availability Plan submission of unavailable or other communications to the ERCOT control room indicating the FFSSR is not available during the Watch.
(10)	If the FFSSR fails to come On-Line or stay On-Line during an FFSS deployment due to a fuel-related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 90 days.  A QSE representing an FFSSR may coordinate with ERCOT and seek approval to take the FFSSR Off-Line for no more than four hours to perform critical maintenance associated with consuming the reserved fuel.  If the QSE coordinates with ERCOT and receives approval to take the FFSSR unit Off-Line and brings the FFSSR back On-Line within four hours or less, this shall not count as failure to stay On-Line for the purpose of this paragraph.
(11)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment, but fails to telemeter on average an HSL equal to or greater than 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a fuel-related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 90 days, in proportion to the difference between the awarded MW value and the average telemetered HSL over the FFSS deployment period.
(12)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment but fails to generate on average at the minimum of either 95% of the MW level instructed by ERCOT or 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a fuel-related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 90 days, in proportion to the difference between the average MW level instructed by ERCOT over the FFSS deployment period and the corresponding average generation of the FFSSR.
(13)	If the FFSSR fails to come On-Line or stay On-Line during an FFSS deployment due to a non-fuel related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 15 days. 
(14)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment but fails to telemeter on average an HSL equal to or greater than 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a non-fuel related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 15 days, in proportion to the difference between the awarded MW value and the average telemetered HSL over the FFSS deployment period.
(15)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment but fails to generate on average at the minimum of either 95% of the MW level instructed by ERCOT or 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a non-fuel related issue, ERCOT shall claw back and/or withhold the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee for 15 days, in proportion to the difference between the average MW level instructed by ERCOT over the FFSS deployment period and the corresponding average generation of the FFSSR.
(16)	Notwithstanding paragraphs (9) through (15) above, if the FFSSR is otherwise available but fails to come On-Line or is forced Off-Line due to a transmission system outage or transmission system limitation that would prevent the unit from being deployed to LSL, ERCOT shall not claw back the FFSS Hourly Standby Fee.  
(17)	If conditions described in paragraphs (11) and (12) occur for the same deployment period, ERCOT shall only claw back the larger amount calculated in paragraph (11) or (12).  If conditions described in paragraphs (14) and (15) occur for the same deployment period, ERCOT shall only claw back the larger amount calculated in paragraph (14) or (15).
(18)	ERCOT shall decertify a primary Generation Resource or any alternate Generation Resource that was an FFSSR for any of the following:
(a)	Failure to come On-Line or stay On-Line during an FFSS deployment due to a fuel-related issue for two or more deployments;
(b)	If the FFSSR comes On-Line or continues generating using reserved fuel during an FFSS deployment, failure to generate on average at the minimum of either 95% of the MW level instructed by ERCOT or 95% of the awarded FFSS MW value due to a fuel-related issue for two or more deployments; or
(c)	Failure to maintain an Hourly Rolling Equivalent Availability Factor greater than or equal to 50%.
(19)	If ERCOT decertifies a primary Generation Resource, the QSE shall designate an alternate Generation Resource that was awarded through the FFSS procurement process to replace the decertified Generation Resource and continue to provide FFSS.  The designated alternate Generation Resource shall satisfy all of the requirements in paragraph (9) of Section 3.14.5, Firm Fuel Supply Service.  The designated alternate Generation Resource may no longer be an alternate for another primary Generation Resource.
(20)	If ERCOT decertifies an FFSSR that does not have any alternate Generation Resources that were awarded through the FFSS procurement process, ERCOT will cease payments to the QSE under Section 6.6.14.2, Firm Fuel Supply Service Hourly Standby Fee Payment and Fuel Replacement Cost Recovery, until the FFSSR is recertified by ERCOT.  ERCOT may issue one or more RFPs to replace the decertified FFSSR’s capacity for the remainder of the FFSS obligation period.  
(21)	If ERCOT has not replaced a decertified Generation Resource’s FFSSR capacity, the QSE of a decertified Generation Resource may request to reestablish its FFSSR certification by submitting a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and by successfully passing a new test, as described in paragraph (5) above.  ERCOT shall, in its sole discretion, determine whether a Generation Resource shall be recertified.
(22)	A decertified Generation Resource that has not been recertified by ERCOT must submit a corrective action plan to ERCOT and have agreement with ERCOT on that plan in order to be considered qualified to provide FFSS and be selected in the procurement process for any future FFSS obligation period.
(23)	If an FFSSR is unavailable or fails to continuously deploy due to a Force Majeure Event, the Generation Entity for such Generation Resource must provide a report to ERCOT containing certain additional information, including:
(a)	If the basis of the non-performance is a Force Majeure Event affecting the FFSSR, a description of the Force Majeure Event giving rise to the non-performance, with reasonably full details of such Force Majeure Event;
(b)	If the basis of the non-performance is the unavailability of the FFSSR’s FFSS Qualifying Pipeline or natural gas storage facility:
(i)	A copy of the relevant Firm Transportation Agreement and/or Firm Gas Storage Agreement; 
(ii)	A copy of the nominations submitted or a detailed accounting of no notices volumes delivered for the gas day prior to the Force Majeure Event until the gas day after the Force Majeure Event; 
(iii)	The applicable storage inventory level for the gas day prior to the Force Majeure Event until the gas day after the Force Majeure Event; 
(iv)	A copy of the force majeure notice from the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline operator or storage provider; and
(v)	The capacity and flow data from the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline or storage facility for the gas day prior to the Force Majeure Event until the gas day after the Force Majeure Event;
(c)	To the best of its knowledge, how, why, and to what extent the Force Majeure Event actually and directly affected the FFSSR’s ability to perform;
(d)	The FFSSR’s heat rate;
(e)	The applicable nominations, and if applicable, no-notice delivered, on the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline from the gas day prior to the Force Majeure Event until the day after the Force Majeure Event; and
(f)	ERCOT will have the right to request that the Generation Entity provide, or cause to be provided, any additional information ERCOT deems necessary, and the Generation Entity must provide such requested information to the extent reasonably within its possession or control.  If the information is not in the possession of the Generation Entity (or its Affiliate) but may be in the possession of the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline operator or storage provider, the Generation Entity will exercise any contractual rights it has to request such information from the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline operator or storage provider, as applicable.
(24)	Unless the agreement is a certified contract, if the relevant Firm Transportation Agreement and/or Firm Gas Storage Agreement does not ensure firmness in the manner required by the ERCOT Protocols, ERCOT shall revoke the award and claw back and/or withhold all of the FFSS Hourly Standby Fees for all of the days of the obligation period.
(25)	For an FFSSR, a Force Majeure Event will be treated the same as any other cause for unavailability for the purposes of calculating the FFSSR’s FFSS Hourly Rolling Equivalent Availability Factor and for paragraphs (9) through (15) above.
(26)	It will constitute a material change under the ERCOT Protocols if a primary Generation Resource or any alternate Generation Resource that qualified to provide FFSS under paragraph (1)(c) above ceases to satisfy any of the requirements to qualify as an FFSSR under paragraph (1)(c) above (for example, but not limited to, if the Firm Transportation Agreement is terminated or if the FFSS Qualifying Pipeline no longer qualifies as an FFSS Qualifying Pipeline). 
(a)	The QSE of such Generation Resource will be required to notify ERCOT within two Business Days of such a material change.
(b)	ERCOT may decertify a primary Generation Resource or alternate Generation Resource if such material change is, in ERCOT’s sole opinion, an adverse change (for example, but not limited to, if a Firm Transportation Agreement is terminated and not replaced with a comparable, qualifying Firm Transportation Agreement).
8.1.1.2.1.7	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Qualification
(1)	ECRS may be provided by:  
(a)	Unloaded Generation Resources that are On-Line; 
(b)	Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs); 
(c)	Load Resources that may or may not be controlled by high-set under-frequency relays; 
(d)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode; or 
(e)	Controllable Load Resources (CLRs). 
(2)	The amount of ECRS provided by individual Generation Resources and Load Resources is limited to ten times its telemetered emergency ramp rate.  Each Resource providing ECRS must be capable of ramping the Resource’s Ancillary Service Resources Responsibility for ECRS within ten minutes of the notice to deploy ECRS,  and must be able to maintain the scheduled level of deployment for the period of service commitment.  The amount of ECRS on a Generation Resource may be further limited by requirements of the Operating Guides.
(3)	A Load Resource must be loaded and capable of unloading the scheduled amount of ECRS within ten minutes of instruction by ERCOT and must either be immediately responsive to system frequency or be interrupted by action of under-frequency relays with settings as specified by the Operating Guides.
(4)	Any QSE providing ECRS shall provide communications equipment to receive ERCOT telemetered control deployments of ECRS.
(5)	Load Resources providing ECRS must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status and status of the under-frequency relay, if applicable. 
(6)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility.  Each Generation Resource and Load Resource providing ECRS must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(7)	A qualification test for each Resource to provide ECRS is conducted during a continuous eight-hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	At any time during the window (selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE), ERCOT shall notify the QSE it is to provide an amount of ECRS from its Resource to be qualified equal to the amount that the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	For Generation Resources desiring qualification to provide ECRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy ECRS, indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall monitor the QSEs telemetry of the Resource’s Ancillary Service Schedule for an update within 15 seconds.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.4, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide ECRS.
(c)	For CLRs desiring qualification to provide ECRS, ERCOT shall send a signal to the Resource’s QSE to deploy ECRS, indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.4.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the CLR given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the CLR’s qualification to provide ECRS.  
(d)	For Load Resources, excluding CLRs, desiring qualification to provide ECRS, ERCOT shall deploy ECRS, indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.4.
(e)	On successful demonstration of all test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing ECRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource Entity.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1246:  Replace Section 8.1.1.2.1.7 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
8.1.1.2.1.7	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Qualification
(1)	ECRS may be provided by:  
(a) 	Unloaded Generation Resources that are On-Line; 
(b)	Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs); 
(c) 	Load Resources that may or may not be controlled by high-set under-frequency relays; 
(d) 	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode; 
(e) 	Controllable Load Resources (CLRs); or
(f)	ESRs. 
(2)	All Resources qualified to participate in SCED or qualified to telemeter a Resource Status of ONSC are also qualified to provide ECRS when the Resource is On-Line.  The amount of ECRS for which the Resource is qualified when On-Line will be limited to the amount of capacity that can be ramped or unloaded within ten minutes.  Off-Line ECRS can only be provided by qualified QSGRs. 
(3)       The amount of ECRS provided by individual Generation Resources and Load Resources is limited to ten times its telemetered emergency ramp rate.  Each Resource providing ECRS must be capable of ramping the Resource’s Ancillary Service award for ECRS within ten minutes of the notice to deploy ECRS, and must be able to maintain the awarded level of deployment for at least one hour.  The amount of ECRS on a Generation Resource may be further limited by requirements of the Operating Guides.
(4)	A Load Resource must be loaded and capable of unloading the awarded amount of ECRS within ten minutes of instruction by ERCOT and must either be immediately responsive to system frequency or be interrupted by action of under-frequency relays with settings as specified by the Operating Guides.
(5)	Any QSE providing ECRS shall provide communications equipment to receive ERCOT telemetered control deployments of ECRS.
(6)	Load Resources providing ECRS must provide a telemetered output signal, including breaker status and status of the under-frequency relay, if applicable. 
(7)	Each QSE shall ensure that each Resource is able to meet the Resource’s obligations to provide the Ancillary Service award.  Each Generation Resource and Load Resource providing ECRS when Off-Line as a QSGR with an OFFQS Resource Status, or when not qualified to participate in SCED, must meet additional technical requirements specified in this Section.
(8)	A qualification test for each Resource to provide ECRS when Off-Line as a QSGR with an OFFQS Resource Status or as a Load Resource, excluding CLRs, is conducted during a continuous eight-hour period agreed to by the QSE and ERCOT.  ERCOT shall confirm the date and time of the test with the QSE.  ERCOT shall administer the following test requirements:
(a)	At any time during the window (selected by ERCOT when market and reliability conditions allow and not previously disclosed to the QSE), ERCOT shall notify the QSE it is to provide an amount of ECRS from its Resource to be qualified equal to the amount that the QSE is requesting qualification.  The QSE shall acknowledge the start of the test.
(b)	Generation Resources desiring qualification to provide ECRS when Off-Line must meet the QSGR qualification criteria outlined under Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.2 for QSGR.  ERCOT shall evaluate the response of the Generation Resource given the current operating conditions of the system and determine the Resource’s qualification to provide ECRS.
(c)	For Load Resources, excluding CLRs, desiring qualification to provide ECRS, ERCOT shall deploy ECRS, indicating the MW amount.  ERCOT shall measure the test Resource’s response as described under Section 8.1.1.4.4.
(d)	On successful demonstration of all test criteria, ERCOT shall qualify that the Resource is capable of providing ECRS and shall provide a copy of the certificate to the QSE and the Resource Entity.

8.1.1.3	Ancillary Service Capacity Compliance Criteria 
(1)	ERCOT shall provide each QSE representing Resources a capacity summary containing as a minimum the same general information required in Section 6.5.7.5, Ancillary Services Capacity Monitor, except specific to only the QSE.  The summary shall be updated with calculations every ten seconds by ERCOT and then provided to the QSE every five minutes using the MIS Certified Area.  
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously measure the overall performance of each QSE in providing each Ancillary Service by comparing the sum of each of the QSE’s Resources’ telemetered Ancillary Services Resource Responsibility with the QSE’s total Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility.  If the comparison indicates the QSE is not providing sufficient capacity to meet its Ancillary Services Supply Responsibility, ERCOT shall notify the QSE via the MIS Certified Area.
(3)	The QSE, within 25 minutes of receiving the insufficient capacity notification from ERCOT, the QSE must:
(a)	If due to a telemetry issue, correct the telemetered Ancillary Services Resource Responsibility to provide sufficient capacity; or
(b)	Must provide both appropriate justification for not satisfying their Ancillary Service Obligation and a plan to correct the shortfall that is acceptable with the ERCOT operator.  ERCOT shall report non-compliance with Ancillary Service capacity requirements to the Reliability Monitor for review.
[NPRR1011:  Delete paragraphs (2) and (3) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(4) 	A QSE for an ESR that is, was, or will be unable to meet its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility due to a charging restriction during an EEA Level 3 event shall inform ERCOT of this inability no later than one hour after the end of the EEA Level 3 event.  Upon providing such notification, the QSE shall be deemed to have complied with its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility for a time period following the EEA Level 3 event that is equal to the duration of the suspended charging period during the EEA Level 3 event.  However, nothing in this paragraph exempts the QSE from any charge under Section 6.7.3, Charges for Ancillary Service Capacity Replaced Due to Failure to Provide, or any other Settlement consequence due to the Ancillary Service insufficiency.
[NPRR1053:  Delete paragraph (4) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-optimization (RTC) Project and renumber accordingly.]
(5)	ERCOT shall report non-compliance with Ancillary Service capacity requirements to the Reliability Monitor for review.  Non-compliance occurs only if a QSE is deficient in its Ancillary Service capacity requirement for more than S% of the five-minute clock intervals that the QSE is carrying an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, as calculated for the calendar month in accordance with paragraphs (6) and (7) of this section, or if the QSE is deficient in its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, by service type, by more than greater of T% of its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility  or U MW for more than 25 minutes (i.e. five consecutive five-minute clock intervals) in five or more instances within the month.  For purposes of this section, a single instance is considered a deficiency of the greater of T% or U MW for more than 25 consecutive minutes, regardless of how long the deficiency persists.  
(6)	ERCOT shall calculate the Ancillary Service capacity performance metrics under normal operating conditions.  ERCOT shall not consider five-minute clock intervals during which any of the following events has occurred:
(a)	For a Resource providing Ancillary Service that experiences a Forced Outage, all five-minute clock intervals from the time of the Forced Outage until the next Operating Hour for which the QSE can update its schedule (i.e., within ten minutes before the close of an Adjustment Period).  This exemption shall only apply to the first three Outages experienced by any single Resource in the evaluation period.  ERCOT shall validate the cause of the Forced Outage through telemetry, however should it not be readily discernable, upon request of ERCOT, the QSE shall provide the following documentation regarding each Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure: 
(i)	Its generation log documenting the Forced Outage, Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure;
(ii)	QSE (COP) for the intervals prior to, and after the event; and
(iii)	Equipment failure documentation which may include, but not be limited to, Generation Availability Data System (GADS) reports, plant operator logs, work orders, or other applicable information; 
(b)	For intervals where both the primary and backup Wide Area Network (WAN) connections are inoperative;
(c)	For intervals where an Ancillary Service Obligation was traded during the Operating Hour between two QSEs such that one QSE assumed the Ancillary Service Obligation of the other QSE, and the ERCOT Operator was notified of the Ancillary Service Trade as soon as practicable; and
(d)	For certain other periods of abnormal operations as determined by ERCOT in its sole discretion.
(7)	For each QSE with Resources providing Ancillary Service, ERCOT shall calculate Ancillary Service capacity performance metrics for each month. 
(a)	Ancillary Service capacity performance is based on the following criteria:
(i)	In each five-minute clock interval during which the QSE has an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, a QSE may be deficient in its Ancillary Service responsibility, by service type, by no more than the greater of:
(A)	T% of its Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility; or
(B)	U MW.
(ii)	If at the end of the month for which the Ancillary Service capacity performance metric was calculated, the QSE failed to meet its applicable responsibilities as defined in item (i) above during more than S% of the five-minute clock intervals that the QSE was carrying an Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility, ERCOT will report such non-compliance to the Reliability Monitor.
(b)	Ancillary Service capacity performance is measured for each service type in five-minute clock intervals based on the difference between Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility and the telemetered responsibility.  ERCOT shall measure Ancillary Service capacity performance one time per five-minute clock interval.  ERCOT shall not measure Ancillary Service capacity performance during the final 20 seconds of any given five-minute clock interval.
(8)	The Ancillary Service capacity performance criteria in paragraphs (5) through (7) above shall be subject to review and approval by the ERCOT Board.  The Ancillary Service capacity performance criteria variables S, T, and U shall be posted to the ERCOT website no later than three Business Days after ERCOT Board approval.
8.1.1.3.1	Regulation Service Capacity Monitoring Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide Reg-Up and Reg-Down.  When determining this available capacity, ERCOT shall consider for each Resource with REG status, the actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service Schedule for Reg-Up and Reg-Down, the HSL, the LSL, ramp rates, any other commitments of Ancillary Service capacity.
[NPRR1011:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide Reg-Up and Reg-Down.  When determining this available capacity, ERCOT shall consider for each Resource the Resource Status, the actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service award for Reg-Up and Reg-Down, the HSL, the LSL, ramp rates, and the Resource’s qualification to provide Reg-Up and Reg-Down.
(2)	For the Reg-Up and Reg-Down capability provided for a Resource to ERCOT by the Resource’s QSE, the amount of Reg-Up or Reg-Down reflected in that capability must be limited to the amount of Reg-Up or Reg-Down that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.
8.1.1.3.2	Responsive Reserve Capacity Monitoring Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide RRS.  ERCOT shall consider for each Resource providing RRS capacity, actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service Schedule for RRS, the HSL, the LSL, and any other commitments of Ancillary Service capacity. 
(2)	For Load Resources not deployed by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the amount of RRS capacity provided must be measured as the Load Resource’s average Load level in the last five minutes.
(3)	A Resource that is capable of providing RRS and that has a Resource Status code of ONRR is considered to be providing frequency responsive capability to the extent that it is not using that capacity to provide energy.
[NPRR1011:  Replace Section 8.1.1.3.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
8.1.1.3.2	Responsive Reserve Capacity Monitoring Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide RRS.  ERCOT shall consider for each Resource the Resource Status, actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service award for RRS, the HSL, the LSL, any other Resource-specific RRS capabilities telemetered by the QSE, and the Resource’s qualification to provide RRS. 
(2)	For Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, that have an RRS award, the amount of RRS capacity provided must be measured as the Load Resource’s average Load level in the last five minutes.
(3)	A Resource that is capable of providing RRS and that has a Resource Status code of ONSC and an RRS award is considered to be providing frequency responsive capability to the extent that it is not using that capacity to provide energy or other Ancillary Services.
(4)	For Resources that are providing RRS and are available for Dispatch by SCED, for the RRS capability provided for a Resource to ERCOT by the Resource’s QSE, the amount of RRS reflected in that capability must be limited to the amount of RRS that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.  For all other Resources excluding non-Controllable Load Resources providing FFR, for the RRS capability provided for a Resource to ERCOT by the Resource’s QSE, the amount of RRS reflected in that capability must be limited to the amount of RRS that can be sustained by the Resource for at least one hour.  Any non-Controllable Load Resources qualified to provide FFR, for the FFR capability provided for a Resource to ERCOT by the Resource’s QSE, the amount of FFR reflected in that capability must be limited to the amount of FFR that can be sustained by the Resource for at least 15 minutes.
8.1.1.3.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Capacity Monitoring Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall consider for each Resource providing Non-Spin capacity, the actual generation, or Load, the Ancillary Service Schedule for Non-Spin, the HSL/Maximum Power Consumption (MPC), the LSL/Low Power Consumption (LPC), ramp rates, and any other commitments of Ancillary Service capacity.  ERCOT shall also monitor Non-Spin provided on Resources with OFFNS status.
[NPRR1011:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall consider for each Resource the Resource Status, the actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service award for Non-Spin, the HSL/Maximum Power Consumption (MPC), the LSL/Low Power Consumption (LPC), ramp rates, and the Resource’s qualification to provide Non-Spin.  ERCOT shall also monitor Non-Spin available from and awarded to qualified Resources with an OFF status.

[NPRR1011 and NPRR1096:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (2) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011; or upon system implementation for NPRR1096:]
(2)	For the Non-Spin capability provided for a Resource to ERCOT by the Resource’s QSE, the amount of Non-Spin reflected in that capability must be limited to the amount of Non-Spin that can be sustained by the Resource for at least four consecutive hours.
8.1.1.3.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Capacity Monitoring Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide ECRS.  ERCOT shall consider for each Resource providing ECRS capacity, the On-Line versus Off-Line status, actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service Schedule for ECRS, the HSL, the LSL, ramp rates, relay status, and any other commitments of Ancillary Service capacity. 
(2)	For Load Resources not deployed by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the amount of ECRS capacity provided must be measured as the Load Resource’s average Load level in the last five minutes.
(3)	A Resource that is capable of providing ECRS and that has a Resource Status code of ONECRS is considered to be providing capability to the extent that it is not using that capacity to provide energy.
[NPRR1011:  Replace Section 8.1.1.3.4 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
8.1.1.3.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Capacity Monitoring Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously monitor the capacity of each Resource to provide ECRS.  ERCOT shall consider for each Resource the Resource Status, the On-Line versus Off-Line status, actual generation or Load, the Ancillary Service award for ECRS, the HSL, the LSL, ramp rates, relay status, and the Resource’s qualification to provide ECRS.
(2)       For the ECRS capability provided for a Resource to ERCOT by the Resource’s QSE, the amount of ECRS reflected in that capability must be limited to the amount of ECRS that can be sustained by the Resource for at least two consecutive hours.
(3)	For Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, that have an ECRS award, the amount of ECRS capacity provided must be measured as the Load Resource’s average Load level in the last five minutes.
(4)	A Resource that is capable of providing ECRS and that has a Resource Status code of ONSC and an ECRS award is considered to be providing capability to the extent that it is not using that capacity to provide energy or other Ancillary Services.
8.1.1.4	Ancillary Service and Energy Deployment Compliance Criteria 
(1)	ERCOT shall measure the performance of each Resource in providing Ancillary Services and energy in response to Dispatch Instructions according to the requirements in the sections below.  Failure to meet these requirements will be reported to the Reliability Monitor as non-compliance.  
8.1.1.4.1	Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics
(1)	ERCOT shall limit the deployment of Regulation Service of each QSE for each LFC cycle equal to 125% of the total amount of Regulation Service in the ERCOT System divided by the number of control cycles in five minutes.
(2)	For those Resources that do not have a Resource Status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG or Intermittent Renewable Resource (IRR) Groups with no member IRR having a status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG, ERCOT shall compute the GREDP for each Generation Resource that is On-Line and released to SCED Base Point Dispatch Instructions.  The GREDP is calculated for each five-minute clock interval as a percentage and in MWs for those Resources with a Resource Status that is not ONDSR or ONDSRREG as follows:
GREDP (%) = ABS[((ATG – AEPFR)/(ABP + ARI)) – 1.0] * 100
GREDP (MW) = ABS(ATG – AEPFR – ABP - ARI)
Where:
ATG = Average Telemetered Generation = the average telemetered generation of the Generation Resource or for the aggregate of the IRRs within an IRR Group for the five-minute clock interval
ARI = Average Regulation Instruction = the amount of regulation that the Generation Resource or IRR Group should have produced based on the LFC deployment signals, calculated by LFC, during each five-minute clock interval
∆frequency is actual frequency minus 60 Hz
EPFR = Estimated Primary Frequency Response (MW) = if │∆frequency│≤ Governor Dead-Band then EPFR = zero, if not then if ∆frequency > zero, EPFR = (∆frequency - Governor Dead-Band)/((droop value * 60) – Governor Dead-Band) * HSL * -1, if not then if ∆frequency < zero, EPFR = (∆frequency + Governor Dead-Band)/((droop value * 60) – Governor Dead-Band) * HSL * -1
AEPFR = Average Estimated Primary Frequency Response = the Estimated Primary Frequency Response (MW) will be calculated every four seconds using a Resource specific droop value where 5% droop = 0.05 the Governor Dead-Band (Hz) and Resource HSL (MW) provided by the Resource Entity, and the frequency deviation (Hz) from 60 Hz and averaged for the five-minute clock interval.  For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, or Generation Resources that have been approved to telemeter Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity (NFRC), the HSL will be reduced by the telemetered NFRC MW to calculate the EPFR.  For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, 5.78% Governor droop shall be used.  The Resource-specific calculations will be aggregated for IRR Groups.
ABP = Average Base Point = the time-weighted average of a linearly ramped Base Point or sum of Base Points for IRR Groups, for the five-minute clock interval.  The linearly ramped Base Point is calculated every four seconds such that it ramps from its initial value to the SCED Base Point over a five-minute period.  The initial value of the linearly ramped Base Point will be the four-second value of the previous linearly ramped Base Point at the time the new SCED Base Point is received into the ERCOT Energy Management System (EMS).  In the event that the SCED Base Point is received after the five-minute ramp period, the linearly ramped Base Point will continue at a constant value equal to the ending four-second value of the five-minute ramp. 
(3)	For all of a QSE’s Resources that have a Resource Status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG (“Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) Portfolio”), ERCOT shall calculate an aggregate GREDP as a percentage and in MWs for those Resources as follows:
GREDP (%) = ABS[(∑DSR ATG – ∑DSR DBPOS + Intra-QSE Purchase – Intra-QSE Sale – ARRDDSRLR – AECRDDSRLR – ANSDDSRLR – ∑DSR AEPFR) / (ATDSRL + ∑DSR ARI) – 1.0] * 100
GREDP (MW) = ABS(∑DSR ATG – ∑DSR DBPOS – ATDSRL– ARRDDSRLR – AECRDDSRLR – ANSDDSRLR + Intra-QSE Purchase - Intra-QSE Sale – ∑DSR AEPFR – ∑DSR ARI)
Where:
∑DSR ATG = Sum of Average Telemetered Generation for all Resources with a Resource Status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG of the QSE for the five-minute clock interval
∑DSR ARI = Sum of Average Regulation Instruction for all Resources with a Resource Status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG of the QSE for the five-minute clock interval
ATDSRL = Average Telemetered DSR Load = the average telemetered DSR Load for the QSE for the five-minute clock interval
Intra-QSE Purchase = Energy Trade where the QSE is both the buyer and seller with the flag set to “Purchase”
Intra-QSE Sale = Energy Trade where the QSE is both the buyer and seller with the flag set to “Sale”
∑DSR AEPFR = Sum of Average Estimated Primary Frequency Response for all Resources with a Resource Status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG of the QSE for the five-minute clock interval
∑DSR DBPOS = Sum of the difference between a linearly ramped Base Point minus Output Schedule for all Resources with a Resource Status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG of the QSE for the five-minute clock interval.  The linearly ramped Base Point is calculated every four seconds such that it ramps from its initial value to the SCED Base Point over a five minute period
ARRDDSRLR = Average Responsive Reserve Deployment DSR Load Resource = the average RRS energy deployment for the five-minute clock interval from Load Resources that are part of the DSR Load
AECRDDSRLR = Average ERCOT Contingency Response Deployment DSR Load Resource = the average ECRS energy deployment for the five-minute clock interval from Load Resources that are part of the DSR Load
ANSDDSRLR = Average Non-Spin Deployment DSR Load Resource = the average Non-Spin energy deployment for the five-minute clock interval from Load Resources that are part of the DSR Load
(4)	For CLRs that have a Resource Status of ONRGL or ONCLR, ERCOT shall compute the CLREDP.  The CLREDP will be calculated both as a percentage and in MWs as follows:
CLREDP (%) = ABS[((ATPC + AEPFR)/(ABP – ARI)) – 1.0] * 100
CLREDP (MW) = ABS(ATPC – (ABP – AEPFR – ARI))
Where:
ATPC = Average Telemetered Power Consumption = the average telemetered power consumption of the CLR for the five-minute clock interval
ARI = Average Regulation Instruction = the amount of regulation that the CLR should have produced based on the LFC deployment signals, calculated by LFC, during each five-minute clock interval.  Reg-Up is considered a positive value for this calculation
AEPFR = Average Estimated Primary Frequency Response = the Estimated Primary Frequency Response (MW) will be calculated every four seconds using a Resource specific droop value where 5% droop = 0.05, the Governor Dead-Band (Hz) and Resource HSL (MW) provided by the Resource Entity, and the frequency deviation (Hz) from 60 Hz and averaged for the five-minute clock interval
ABP = Average Base Point = the time-weighted average of a linearly ramped Base Point for the five-minute clock interval.  The linearly ramped Base Point is calculated every four seconds such that it ramps from its initial value to the SCED Base Point over a five-minute period.  The initial value of the linearly ramped Base Point will be the four second value of the previous linearly ramped Base Point at the time the new SCED Base Point is received into the ERCOT EMS.  In the event that the SCED Base Point is received after the five minute ramp period, the linearly ramped Base Point will continue at a constant value equal to the ending four second value of the five-minute ramp.  
(5)	ERCOT shall post to the MIS Certified Area for each QSE and for all Generation Resources or Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) Groups that are not part of a DSR Portfolio, for the DSR Portfolios, and for all CLRs:
(a)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or IRR Group was On-Line and released to SCED Base Point Dispatch Instructions;
(b)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of either ONRGL or ONCLR; 
(c)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, IRR or CLR was providing Regulation Service;
(d)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR Group, or the DSR Portfolio was released to SCED that the GREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR Group, or the DSR Portfolio was released to SCED that the GREDP was less than 2.5 MW;
(e)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of either ONRGL or ONCLR that the CLREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Controllable Load Resource had a Resource Status of either ONRGL or ONCLR that the CLREDP was less than 2.5 MW; 
(f)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR Group, or the DSR Portfolio was released to SCED that the GREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR Group, or the DSR Portfolio was released to SCED that the GREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW;
(g)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of either ONRGL or ONCLR that the CLREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Controllable Load Resource had a Resource Status of either ONRGL or ONCLR that the CLREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW; 
(h)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR Group, or the DSR Portfolio was released to SCED that the GREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR Group, or the DSR Portfolio was released to SCED that the GREDP was greater than 5.0 MW;
(i)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of either ONRGL or ONCLR that the CLREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Controllable Load Resource had a Resource Status of either ONRGL or ONCLR that the CLREDP was greater than 5.0 MW; 
(j)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR, or the DSR Portfolio was providing Regulation Service that the GREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR, or the DSR Portfolio was providing Regulation Service that the GREDP was less than 2.5 MW;
(k)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was providing Regulation Service that the CLREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Controllable Load Resource was providing Regulation Service that the CLREDP was less than 2.5 MW; 
(l)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR, or the DSR Portfolio was providing Regulation Service that the GREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR, or the DSR Portfolio was providing Regulation Service that the GREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW;
(m)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was providing Regulation Service that the CLREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was providing Regulation Service that the CLREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW; 
(n)	The percent of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR, or the DSR Portfolio was providing Regulation Service that the GREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, the IRR, or the DSR Portfolio was providing Regulation Service that the GREDP was greater than 5.0 MW; and
(o)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was providing Regulation Service that the CLREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was providing Regulation Service that the CLREDP was greater than 5.0 MW.
(6)	ERCOT shall calculate the GREDP/CLREDP under normal operating conditions.  ERCOT shall not consider five-minute clock intervals during which any of the following events has occurred:
(a)	The five-minute intervals within the 20-minute period following an event in which ERCOT has experienced a Forced Outage causing an ERCOT frequency deviation of greater than 0.05 Hz; 
(b)	Five-minute clock intervals in which ERCOT has issued Emergency Base Points to the QSE;
(c)	The five-minute clock interval following the Forced Outage of any Resource within the QSE’s DSR Portfolio that has a Resource Status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG; 
(d)	The five-minute clock intervals following a documented Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure of a Generation Resource or any member IRR of an IRR Group.  Upon request of the Reliability Monitor or ERCOT, the QSE shall provide the following documentation regarding each Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure:
(i)	Its generation log documenting the Forced Outage, Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure;
(ii)	QSE (COP) for the intervals prior to, and after the event; and
(iii)	Equipment failure documentation which may include, but not be limited to, Generation Availability Data System (GADS) reports, plant operator logs, work orders, or other applicable information;
(e)	The five-minute clock intervals where the telemetered Resource Status is set to ONTEST such as intervals during Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing as outlined in Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing, or the five-minute clock intervals during general capacity testing requirements as outlined in Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements;
(f)	The five-minute clock intervals where the telemetered Resource Status is set to STARTUP; 
(g)	The five-minute clock intervals where a Generation Resource’s ABP is below the average telemetered LSL;
(h)	Certain other periods of abnormal operations as determined by ERCOT in its sole discretion;
(i)	For a CLR, the five-minute clock intervals in which the computed Base Points are equal to the snapshot of its telemetered power consumption;
(j)	For intervals where both the primary and backup Wide Area Network (WAN) connections are inoperative.
(7)	All Generation Resources that are not part of a DSR Portfolio, excluding IRRs, and all DSR Portfolios shall meet the following GREDP criteria for each month.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(a)	A Generation Resource or DSR Portfolio, excluding an IRR, must have a GREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month during which GREDP was calculated.
(b)	If at the end of the month during which GREDP was calculated a DSR Portfolio has a GREDP less than X% or Y MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals, the Reliability Monitor shall, at the request of the QSE with the DSR Portfolio, recalculate GREDP excluding the five-minute clock intervals following the Forced Outage of any Resource within the QSE’s DSR Portfolio that has a Resource Status of ONDSR or ONDSRREG continuing until the start of the next Operating Hour for which the QSE is able to adjust.  If the Forced Outage of the Resource occurs within ten minutes of the start of the next Operating Hour, then the Reliability Monitor shall not consider any of the five-minute intervals between the time of the Forced Outage and continuing until the start of the second Operating Hour for which the QSE is able to adjust.  The requesting QSE shall provide to the Reliability Monitor information validating the Forced Outage including the time of the occurrence of the Forced Outage and documentation of the last submitted COP status prior to the Forced Outage of the Resource for the intervals in dispute.
(c)	Additionally, all Generation Resources that are not part of a DSR Portfolio, excluding IRRs, and all DSR Portfolios will also be measured for performance specifically during intervals in which ERCOT has declared EEA Level 1 or greater.  These Resources must meet the following GREDP criteria for the time window that includes all five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(i)	A Generation Resource or DSR Portfolio, excluding an IRR, must have a GREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW.  A Generation Resource or DSR Portfolio cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and GREDP was calculated.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA.
(8)	All IRRs and IRR Groups shall meet the following GREDP criteria for each month.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(a)	An IRR or IRR Group must have a GREDP less than Z% or the ATG must be less than the expected MW output for 95% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month when the Resource or a member IRR of an IRR Group received a Base Point Dispatch Instruction in which the Base Point was two MW or more below the IRR’s HSL used by SCED or the IRR was instructed not to exceed its Base Point.  The expected MW output includes the Resource’s Base Point, Regulation Service instructions, and any expected Primary Frequency Response.
(b)	Additionally, all IRRs and IRR Groups will also be measured for performance specifically during intervals in which ERCOT has declared EEA Level 1 or greater.  These Resources and IRR Groups must meet the following GREDP criteria for the time window that includes all five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(i)	An IRR or IRR Group must have a GREDP less than Z% or the ATG must be less than the expected MW output.  An IRR or IRR Group cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and the Resource or a member of an IRR Group received a Base Point Dispatch Instruction in which the Base Point was two MW or more below the IRR’s HSL used by SCED or the IRR was instructed not to exceed its Base Point.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA.
(9)	All CLRs shall meet the following CLREDP criteria each month.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(a)	A CLR must have a CLREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month during which CLREDP was calculated.
(b)	Additionally, all CLRs will also be measured for performance specifically during intervals in which ERCOT has declared EEA Level 1 or greater.  These Resources must meet the following CLREDP criteria for the time window that includes all five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following Performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(i)	A CLR must have a CLREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW.  A CLR cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and CLREDP was calculated.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA. 
(c)	For CLRs which are providing RRS, ECRS, or Non-Spin, the following intervals will be excluded from these calculations:
(i)	Five-minute clock intervals which begin ten minutes or less after a deployment of RRS or ECRS was deployed to the Resource; 
(ii)	Five-minute clock intervals which begin ten minutes or less after a recall of RRS or ECRS when the Resource was deployed for RRS or ECRS;
(iii)	Five-minute clock intervals which begin 30 minutes or less after a deployment of Non-Spin was deployed to the Resource; and
(iv)	Five-minute clock intervals which begin 30 minutes or less after a recall of Non-Spin when the Resource was deployed for Non-Spin.
(10)	The GREDP/CLREDP performance criteria in paragraphs (7) through (9) above shall be subject to review and approval by TAC.  The GREDP/CLREDP performance criteria variables X, Y, and Z shall be posted to the ERCOT website no later than three Business Days after TAC approval.
(11)	If at the end of the month during which GREDP was calculated, a non-DSR Resource or a QSE with DSR Resources, has a GREDP less than X% or Y MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals, the Reliability Monitor shall, at the request of the QSE, recalculate GREDP excluding the five-minute clock intervals when a Resource is deployed above the unit’s ramp rate due to ramp rate sharing between energy and Regulation Service, as described in Section 6.5.7.2, Resource Limit Calculator.  The requesting QSE shall provide to the Reliability Monitor information validating the ramp rate violation for the intervals in dispute.
[NPRR879, NPRR963, NPRR965, NPRR1000, NPRR1046, NPRR1011, NPRR1014, NPRR1029, and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of Section 8.1.1.4.1 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR879, NPRR963, NPRR965, NPRR1000, NPRR1014, or NPRR1029; upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011 and NPRR1246; or upon system implementation of NPRR1000 for NPRR1000 and NPRR1046:]
8.1.1.4.1	Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics
(1)	ERCOT shall compute the GREDP for each Generation Resource that is On-Line and released to SCED for Base Point Dispatch Instructions.  The GREDP is calculated for each five-minute clock interval as a percentage and in MWs as follows:
GREDP (%) = ABS[((ATG – AEPFR)/(ASP)) – 1.0] * 100
GREDP (MW) = ABS(ATG – AEPFR – ASP)
Where:
ATG = Average Telemetered Generation = the average telemetered generation of the Generation Resource or for the aggregate of the IRRs within an IRR Group for the five-minute clock interval
∆frequency is actual frequency minus 60 Hz
EPFR = Estimated Primary Frequency Response (MW) = if │∆frequency│≤ Governor Dead-Band then EPFR = zero, if not then if ∆frequency > zero, EPFR = (∆frequency - Governor Dead-Band)/((droop value * 60) – Governor Dead-Band) * HSL * -1, if not then if ∆frequency < zero, EPFR = (∆frequency + Governor Dead-Band)/((droop value * 60) – Governor Dead-Band) * HSL * -1
AEPFR = Average Estimated Primary Frequency Response = the Estimated Primary Frequency Response (MW) will be calculated every four seconds using a Resource specific droop value where 5% droop = 0.05 the Governor Dead-Band (Hz) and Resource HSL (MW) provided by the Resource Entity, and the frequency deviation (Hz) from 60 Hz and averaged for the five-minute clock interval.  For Combined Cycle Generation Resources with Non-Frequency Responsive Capacity (NFRC), the HSL to calculate the EPFR will be based on the Resource’s high limit of the capacity that is frequency responsive.  For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, 5.78% Governor droop shall be used.  The Resource-specific calculations will be aggregated for IRR Groups.
ASP = Average Set Point = the time-weighted average of the Resource’s Updated Desired Set Point (UDSP) for the five-minute clock interval   
(2)	For CLRs that have a Resource Status of ONL and are acting as a CLR, ERCOT shall compute the CLREDP.  The CLREDP will be calculated both as a percentage and in MWs as follows:
CLREDP (%) = ABS[((ATPC + AEPFR)/(ASP)) – 1.0] * 100
CLREDP (MW) = ABS(ATPC – (ASP – AEPFR))
Where:
ATPC = Average Telemetered Power Consumption = the average telemetered power consumption of the CLR for the five-minute clock interval
AEPFR = Average Estimated Primary Frequency Response = the Estimated Primary Frequency Response (MW) will be calculated every four seconds using a Resource specific droop value where 5% droop = 0.05, the Governor Dead-Band (Hz) and Resource HSL (MW) provided by the Resource Entity, and the frequency deviation (Hz) from 60 Hz and averaged for the five-minute clock interval
ASP = Average Set Point = the time-weighted average of the Resource’s UDSP for the five-minute clock interval  
(3)	ERCOT shall compute the ESREDP for ESRs.  The ESREDP is calculated for each five-minute clock interval as a percentage and in MWs as follows:
ESREDP (%) = ABS[((ATPF – AEPFR)/(ASP)) – 1.0] * 100
ESREDP (MW) = ABS(ATPF – AEPFR – ASP)
Where:
ATPF = Average Telemetered Power Flow = the average telemetered power flow of the Energy Storage Resource for the five-minute clock interval.
ASP = Average Set Point = the time-weighted average of UDSP, for the five-minute clock interval.  
∆frequency is actual frequency minus 60 Hz.
EPFR = Estimated Primary Frequency Response (MW) = If │∆frequency│≤ Governor Dead-Band then EPFR = zero, if not then if ∆frequency > zero, EPFR = (∆frequency - Governor Dead-Band)/((droop value * 60) – Governor Dead-Band) * ABS(HSL-LSL) * -1, if not then if ∆frequency < zero, EPFR = (∆frequency + Governor Dead-Band)/((droop value * 60) – Governor Dead-Band) * ABS(HSL-LSL) * -1.
AEPFR = Average Estimated Primary Frequency Response = the Estimated Primary Frequency Response (MW) will be calculated every four seconds using a Resource-specific droop value where 5% droop = 0.05, the Governor Dead-Band (Hz), Resource LSL (MW), and Resource HSL (MW) provided by the Resource Entity, and the frequency deviation (Hz) from 60 Hz and averaged for the five-minute clock interval.  
(4)	ERCOT shall post to the MIS Certified Area for each QSE and for all Generation Resources, ESRs, Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) Groups, and CLRs, as applicable:
(a)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or IRR Group was On-Line and released to SCED Base Point Dispatch Instructions;
(b)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of ONL; 
(c)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR had a Resource Status of ON;
(d)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource, IRR, ESR, or CLR was awarded Regulation Service;
(e)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR Group was released to SCED that the GREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR Group was released to SCED that the GREDP was less than 2.5 MW;
(f)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of ONL that the CLREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of ONL that the CLREDP was less than 2.5 MW; 
(g)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was released to SCED that the ESRESDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was released to SCED that the ESRESDP was less than 2.5 MW;
(h)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR Group was released to SCED that the GREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR Group was released to SCED that the GREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW;
(i)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of ONL that the CLREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of ONL that the CLREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW; 
(j)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was released to SCED that the ESREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was released to SCED that the ESREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW;
(k)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR Group was released to SCED that the GREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR Group was released to SCED that the GREDP was greater than 5.0 MW;
(l)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of ONL that the CLREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR had a Resource Status of ONL that the CLREDP was greater than 5.0 MW; 
(m)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was released to SCED that the ESREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was released to SCED that the ESREDP was greater than 5.0 MW;
(n)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR was awarded Regulation Service that the GREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR was awarded Regulation Service that the GREDP was less than 2.5 MW;
(o)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was awarded Regulation Service that the CLREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was awarded Regulation Service that the CLREDP was less than 2.5 MW; 
(p)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was awarded Regulation Service that the ESREDP was less than 2.5% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was awarded Regulation Service that the ESREDP was less than 2.5 MW;
(q)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR was awarded Regulation Service that the GREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR was awarded Regulation Service that the GREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW;
(r)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was awarded Regulation Service that the CLREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was awarded Regulation Service that the CLREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW; 
(s)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was awarded Regulation Service that the ESREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5% and equal to or less than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was awarded Regulation Service that the ESREDP was equal to or greater than 2.5 MW and equal to or less than 5.0 MW;
(t)	The percent of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR was awarded Regulation Service that the GREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the Generation Resource or the IRR was awarded Regulation Service that the GREDP was greater than 5.0 MW;
(u)	The percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was awarded Regulation Service that the CLREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the CLR was awarded Regulation Service that the CLREDP was greater than 5.0 MW; and
(v)	The percent of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was awarded Regulation Service that the ESREDP was greater than 5.0% and the percentage of the monthly five-minute clock intervals during which the ESR was awarded Regulation Service that the ESREDP was greater than 5.0 MW.
(5)	ERCOT shall calculate the GREDP/CLREDP/ESREDP under normal operating conditions.  ERCOT shall not consider five-minute clock intervals during which any of the following events has occurred:
(a)	The five-minute intervals within the 20-minute period following an event in which ERCOT has experienced a Forced Outage causing an ERCOT frequency deviation of greater than 0.05 Hz; 
(b)	Five-minute clock intervals in which ERCOT has issued Emergency Base Points to the QSE;
(c)	The five-minute clock intervals following a documented Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure of a Generation Resource, ESR, or any member IRR of an IRR Group.  Upon request of the Reliability Monitor or ERCOT, the QSE shall provide the following documentation regarding each Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure:
(i)	Its generation log documenting the Forced Outage, Forced Derate or Startup Loading Failure;
(ii)	QSE (COP) for the intervals prior to, and after the event; and
(iii)	Equipment failure documentation which may include, but not be limited to, Generation Availability Data System (GADS) reports, plant operator logs, work orders, or other applicable information;
(d)	The five-minute clock intervals where the telemetered Resource Status is set to ONTEST such as intervals during Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing as outlined in Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing, or the five-minute clock intervals during general capacity testing requirements as outlined in Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements;
(e)	The five-minute clock intervals where the telemetered Resource Status is set to STARTUP; 
(f)	The five-minute clock intervals where a Generation Resource’s ASP is below the average telemetered LSL;
(g)	Certain other periods of abnormal operations as determined by ERCOT in its sole discretion;
(h)	For a CLR, the five-minute clock intervals in which the computed Base Points are equal to the snapshot of its telemetered power consumption;
(i)        For intervals where both the primary and backup Wide Area Network (WAN) connections are inoperative; and
(j)	For QSGRs, the five-minute clock intervals in which the QSGR has a telemetered status of SHUTDOWN or telemeters an LSL of zero pursuant to Section 3.8.3.1, Quick Start Generation Resource Decommitment Decision Process.
(6)	All Generation Resources, excluding IRRs, shall meet the following GREDP criteria for each month.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(a)	A Generation Resource, excluding an IRR, must have a GREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month during which GREDP was calculated.
(b)	Additionally, all Generation Resources, excluding IRRs, will also be measured for performance specifically during intervals in which ERCOT has declared EEA Level 1 or greater.  These Resources must meet the following GREDP criteria for the time window that includes all five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(i)	A Generation Resource, excluding an IRR, must have a GREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW.  A Generation Resource cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and GREDP was calculated.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA.
(7)	All IRRs and IRR Groups shall meet the following GREDP criteria for each month.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(a)	An IRR or IRR Group must have a GREDP less than Z% or the ATG must be less than the expected MW output for 95% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month when the Resource or a member IRR of an IRR Group was not awarded Ancillary Service and received a Base Point Dispatch Instruction in which the Base Point was two MW or more below the IRR’s HSL used by SCED or the IRR was instructed not to exceed its Base Point.  The expected MW output includes the Resource’s Base Point, Regulation Service instructions, and any expected Primary Frequency Response.
(b)	An IRR or IRR Group must have a GREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month during which the Resource or a member IRR of an IRR Group was awarded Ancillary Service.
(c)	Additionally, all IRRs and IRR Groups will also be measured for performance specifically during intervals in which ERCOT has declared EEA Level 1 or greater.  These Resources and IRR Groups must meet the following GREDP criteria for the time window that includes all five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(i)	An IRR or IRR Group must have a GREDP less than Z% or the ATG must be less than the expected MW output.  An IRR or IRR Group cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and the Resource or a member of an IRR Group was not awarded Ancillary Service and received a Base Point Dispatch Instruction in which the Base Point was two MW or more below the IRR’s HSL used by SCED or the IRR was instructed not to exceed its Base Point.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA.
(ii)	An IRR or IRR Group must have a GREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW when the Resource or a member IRR of an IRR Group was awarded Ancillary Service.  An IRR or IRR Group cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA.
(8)	All CLRs shall meet the following CLREDP criteria each month.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(a)	A CLR must have a CLREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month during which CLREDP was calculated.
(b)	Additionally, all CLRs will also be measured for performance specifically during intervals in which ERCOT has declared EEA Level 1 or greater.  These Resources must meet the following CLREDP criteria for the time window that includes all five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following Performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(i)	A CLR must have a CLREDP less than the greater of X% or Y MW.  A CLR cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and CLREDP was calculated.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA. 
(c)	For CLRs which are providing RRS, ECRS, or Non-Spin, the following intervals will be excluded from these calculations:
(i)	Five-minute clock intervals which begin ten minutes or less after a deployment of RRS or ECRS was deployed to the Resource; 
(ii)	Five-minute clock intervals which begin ten minutes or less after a recall of RRS or ECRS when the Resource was deployed for RRS or ECRS;
(iii)	Five-minute clock intervals which begin 30 minutes or less after a deployment of Non-Spin was deployed to the Resource; and
(iv)	Five-minute clock intervals which begin 30 minutes or less after a recall of Non-Spin when the Resource was deployed for Non-Spin.
(9)	All ESRs shall meet the following ESREDP criteria each month.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(a)	An ESR must have an ESREDP less than the greater of V% or W MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month during which ESREDP was calculated.
(b)	Additionally, all ESRs will also be measured for performance specifically during intervals in which ERCOT has declared EEA Level 1 or greater.  These Resources must meet the following ESREDP criteria for the time window that includes all five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(i)	An ESR must have an ESREDP less than the greater of V% or W MW.  An ESR cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and ESREDP was calculated.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA.
(10)	DC-Coupled Resources shall meet the following ESREDP criteria each month.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(a)	For each five-minute clock interval in which a DC-Coupled Resource meets the conditions in paragraph (1) of Section 3.8.7, DC-Coupled Resources, the DC-Coupled Resource must have an ESREDP less than the greater of V% or W MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month during which ESREDP for the DC-Coupled Resource was calculated.
(b)	For each five-minute clock interval in which a DC-Coupled Resource meets the conditions in paragraph (2) of Section 3.8.7, the DC-Coupled Resource must have an ESREDP less than Z% or the ATG must be less than the expected MW output for 95% of the five-minute clock intervals in the month when the DC-Coupled Resource received a Base Point Dispatch Instruction in which the Base Point was two MW or more below the DC-Coupled Resource’s HSL used by SCED or the IRR was instructed not to exceed its Base Point.  The expected MW output includes the Resource’s Base Point and any expected Primary Frequency Response. 
(c)	Additionally, all DC-Coupled Resources will be measured for performance during intervals in which ERCOT has declared an EEA.  These Resources must meet the following ESREDP criteria for the time window that includes all five-minute clock intervals during which the EEA was declared.  ERCOT will report non-compliance of the following performance criteria to the Reliability Monitor:
(i)	For each five-minute clock interval in which a DC-Coupled Resource meets the conditions in paragraph (1) of Section 3.8.7, the DC-Coupled Resource must have an ESREDP less than the greater of V% or W MW.  A DC-Coupled Resource cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and ESREDP was calculated.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA.
(ii)	For each five-minute clock interval in which a DC-Coupled Resource meets the conditions in paragraph (2) of Section 3.8.7, the DC-Coupled Resource must have a ESREDP less than Z% or the ATG must be less than the expected MW output.  A DC-Coupled Resource cannot fail this criteria more than three five-minute clock intervals during which EEA was declared and the DC-Coupled Resource received a Base Point Dispatch Instruction in which the Base Point was two MW or more below the DC-Coupled Resource’s HSL used by SCED or the IRR was instructed not to exceed its Base Point.  The performance will be measured separately for each instance in which ERCOT has declared EEA.
(11)	The GREDP/CLREDP/ESREDP performance criteria in paragraphs (6) through (10) above shall be subject to review and approval by TAC.  The GREDP/CLREDP/ESREDP performance criteria variables V, W, X, Y, and Z shall be posted to the ERCOT website no later than three Business Days after TAC approval.
(12)	If at the end of the month during which GREDP was calculated, a Resource has a GREDP less than X% or Y MW for 85% of the five-minute clock intervals, the Reliability Monitor shall, at the request of the QSE, recalculate GREDP excluding the five-minute clock intervals when a Resource is deployed above the unit’s ramp rate due to ramp rate sharing between energy and Regulation Service.  The requesting QSE shall provide to the Reliability Monitor information validating the ramp rate violation for the intervals in dispute.
8.1.1.4.2	Responsive Reserve Energy Deployment Criteria
(1)	Each QSE providing RRS shall so indicate by appropriate entries in the Resource’s Ancillary Service Schedule and the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility providing that service.  When manually deployed as specified in Nodal Operating Guide Section 4.8, Responsive Reserve Service During Scarcity Conditions, SCED shall adjust the Generation Resource’s Base Point for any requested RRS energy in the next cycle of SCED as specified in Section 6.5.7.6.2.2, Deployment of Responsive Reserve Service.  For Controllable Load Resources, the QSE shall control its Resources to operate to the Resource’s Scheduled Power Consumption minus any Ancillary Service deployments.  Control performance during periods in which RRS has been self-deployed shall be based on the requirements below and failure to meet any one of these requirements may be reported to the Reliability Monitor as non-compliance:
(a)	Within one minute following a deployment instruction, the QSE must update the telemetered Ancillary Service Schedule for RRS for Generation Resources and Load Resources to reflect the deployment amount.  The difference between the sum of the QSE’s Resource RRS schedules and the sum of the QSE’s Resource RRS responsibilities must be equal to the QSE’s total RRS deployment instruction, excluding the deployment to Load Resources which are not Controllable Load Resources.
(b)	A QSE providing RRS must reserve sufficient Primary Frequency Response capable capacity on each Generation Resource with a RRS responsibility or must reserve sufficient capacity capable of FFR to supply the full amount of RRS scheduled for that Resource.  The QSE shall not use NFRC, such as power augmentation capacity on a Generation Resource, to provide RRS.  
(c)	ERCOT shall evaluate the Primary Frequency Response of all RRS providers as calculated in Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment J, Initial and Sustained Measurements for Primary Frequency Response.
(2)	For all Frequency Measurable Events (FMEs), ERCOT shall use the recorded data for each two-second scan rate value of real power output for each Generation Resource, Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG), Resource capable of FFR providing RRS, and Controllable Load Resource.  ERCOT shall use the recorded MW data beginning one minute before the start of the frequency excursion event until ten minutes after the start of the frequency excursion event.  Satisfactory performance for those Resources with a RRS responsibility must be measured by comparing actual Primary Frequency Response to the expected Primary Frequency Response as required in the Operating Guides. 
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor the Primary Frequency Response that is delivered during FMEs of Generation Resources, SOTGs, SOTSGs, Resources capable of FFR, and Controllable Load Resources with RRS responsibilities using the methodology specified in the Operating Guides.  ERCOT shall monitor the Primary Frequency Response that is delivered during FMEs of Controllable Load Resources, relay response for Loads and Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode providing RRS at the frequency specified in paragraph (3)(b) of Section 3.18, Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service.
(4)	For QSEs with Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, ten minutes following deployment instruction the sum of the QSE’s Load Resource response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(i)	The QSE’s Responsibility for RRS from non-Controllable Load Resources; or
(ii)	The requested MW deployment.
	The QSE’s portfolio shall maintain this response until recalled or the Resource’s obligation to provide RRS expires.  The combination of the QSE’s RRS responsibility and additional available capacity shall not exceed 150% of the sum of the QSE’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS from non-Controllable Load Resources.  Any additional available capacity from Load Resources other than Controllable Load Resources shall be deployed concurrently with RRS.
(5)	For Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, associated with a QSE that does not successfully deploy as defined under this Section, ERCOT shall evaluate, identify and investigate each Load Resource that contributed to such failure, in order to determine failure under paragraph (9) of Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(6)	A Load Resource providing RRS excluding Controllable Load Resources must return to at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS within three hours following a recall instruction unless replaced by another Resource as described below.  However, the Load Resource should attempt to return to at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for RRS as soon as practical considering process constraints.  For a Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource that is unable to return to its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility within three hours of recall instruction, its QSE may replace the quantity of deficient RRS capacity within that same three hours using other Generation Resources or other Load Resources not previously committed to provide RRS.
(7)	During periods when the Load level of a Load Resource (excluding Controllable Load Resources) has been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the performance of a Load Resource in response to a Dispatch Instruction must be determined by subtracting the Load Resource’s actual Load response from its Baseline.  “Baseline” capacity is calculated by measuring the average of the real power consumption for five minutes before the Dispatch Instruction if the Load level of a Load Resource had not been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT.  The actual Load response is the average of the real power consumption data being telemetered to ERCOT during the Settlement Interval indicated in the Dispatch Instruction.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1011:  Replace applicable portions of Section 8.1.1.4.2 above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011:]
8.1.1.4.2	Responsive Reserve Energy Deployment Criteria
(1)	Control performance during periods in which RRS has been self-deployed shall be based on the requirements below and failure to meet any one of these requirements may be reported to the Reliability Monitor as non-compliance:
(a)	A QSE providing RRS must reserve sufficient Primary Frequency Response capable capacity on each Generation Resource with a RRS award or must reserve sufficient capacity capable of FFR to supply the full amount of RRS awarded to that Resource.  The QSE shall not use non-FRC, such as power augmentation capacity on a Generation Resource, to provide RRS.  
(b)	ERCOT shall evaluate the Primary Frequency Response of all RRS providers as calculated in Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment J, Initial and Sustained Measurements for Primary Frequency Response.
(2)	For all Frequency Measurable Events (FMEs), ERCOT shall use the recorded data for each two-second scan rate value of real power output for each Generation Resource, Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG), Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS), Resource capable of FFR providing RRS, and Controllable Load Resource.  ERCOT shall use the recorded MW data beginning one minute before the start of the frequency excursion event until ten minutes after the start of the frequency excursion event.  Satisfactory performance for those Resources with an RRS award must be measured by comparing actual Primary Frequency Response to the expected Primary Frequency Response as required in the Operating Guides. 
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor the Primary Frequency Response that is delivered during FMEs of Generation Resources, SOTGs, SOTSGs, SOTESSs, Resources capable of FFR, and Controllable Load Resources with RRS responsibilities using the methodology specified in the Operating Guides.  ERCOT shall monitor the Primary Frequency Response that is delivered during FMEs of Controllable Load Resources, relay response for Loads and Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode providing RRS at the frequency specified in paragraph (3)(b) of Section 3.18, Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service.
(4)	For Resources providing FFR, once the FFR is deployed, the Resource must stay deployed for the duration of the sustained response period, defined as 15 minutes or until the time of recall instruction from ERCOT, whichever occurs first.  A Load Resource that is controlled by a high-set under-frequency relay and is providing FFR may only withdraw energy from the grid after the frequency has recovered to 60 Hz and Physical Responsive Capability (PRC) is above 2,500 MW, or if instructed to do so by ERCOT.
(5)	For a Resource providing RRS with a Resource Status of ONSC, once the RRS is deployed, the Resource must maintain the response until recalled by ERCOT.
(6)	For a Load Resource that is controlled by a high-set under-frequency relay and is providing RRS, once the RRS is deployed, the Resource must maintain the response to the deployment until recalled by ERCOT.
(7)	For QSEs with Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, ten minutes following deployment instruction the sum of the QSE’s Load Resource response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(i)	The QSE’s award for RRS from non-Controllable Load Resources; or
(ii)	The requested MW deployment.
	The QSE’s portfolio shall maintain this response until recalled.
(8)	For Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, associated with a QSE that does not successfully deploy as defined under this Section, ERCOT shall evaluate, identify and investigate each Load Resource that contributed to such failure, in order to determine failure under paragraph (9) of Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(9)	For a QSE self-providing RRS on Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources that have been deployed for RRS, the QSE may move the self-provided amount to another Load Resource, while maintaining the deployment instructions on the previously deployed Load Resource, if:
(a) 	The Load Resource to which the RRS is to be moved is not a Controllable Load Resource and has not been deployed for RRS; and 
(b)	The self-provided amount of RRS is within the QSE’s portfolio.
(10)	During periods when the Load level of a Load Resource (excluding Controllable Load Resources) has been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the performance of a Load Resource in response to a Dispatch Instruction must be determined by subtracting the Load Resource’s actual Load response from its Baseline.  “Baseline” capacity is calculated by measuring the average of the real power consumption for five minutes before the Dispatch Instruction if the Load level of a Load Resource had not been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT.  The actual Load response is the average of the real power consumption data being telemetered to ERCOT during the Settlement Interval indicated in the Dispatch Instruction.
8.1.1.4.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall, as part of its Ancillary Service deployment procedure under Section 6.5.7.6.2.3, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Deployment, include all performance metrics for a Resource receiving a Non-Spin recall instruction from ERCOT. 
(2)	A Non-Spin Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT must respect the minimum runtime of a Generation Resource.  After the recall of a Non-Spin Dispatch Instruction, any Generation Resource previously Off-Line providing Non-Spin is allowed to remain On-Line for 30 minutes following the recall.  During that time period, the On-Line Generation Resource is treated as if the Non-Spin is being provided.  
(3)	Control performance during periods in which ERCOT has deployed Non-Spin shall be based on the requirements below and failure to meet any one of these requirements for the greater of one or 5% of Non-Spin deployments during a month shall be reported to the Reliability Monitor as non-compliance:
(a)	Within 20 minutes following a deployment instruction, the QSE must update the telemetered Ancillary Service Schedule for Non-Spin for Generation Resources and CLRs to reflect the deployment amount.
(b)	Off-Line Generation Resources, within 25 minutes following a deployment instruction, must be On-Line with an Energy Offer Curve and the telemetered net generation must be greater than or equal to the Resource’s telemetered LSL multiplied by P1 where P1 is defined in the “ERCOT and QSE Operations Business Practices During the Operating Hour.”  The Resource Status that must be telemetered indicating that the Resource has come On-Line with an Energy Offer Curve is ON as described in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria.
(c)	If an Off-Line Generation Resource experiences a Startup Loading Failure (excluding those caused by operator error), the Resource may be considered for exclusion from performance non-compliance if the QSE provides to ERCOT the following documentation regarding the incident:
(i)	Its generation log documenting the Startup Loading Failure; and 
(ii)	Equipment failure documentation such as, but not limited to, GADS reports, plant operator logs, work orders, or other applicable information.  
(d)	For QSEs with Load Resources that are not CLRs, 30 minutes following deployment instruction the sum of the QSE’s Load Resource response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(i)	The QSE’s award for Non-Spin from Load Resources that are not CLRs; or
(ii)	The requested MW deployment.
	The QSE’s portfolio shall maintain this response until recalled.
(e)	During periods when the Load level of a Load Resource that is not a CLR providing Non-Spin has been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the performance of a Load Resource in response to a Dispatch Instruction must be determined by subtracting the Load Resource’s actual Load response from its Baseline.  “Baseline” capacity is calculated by measuring the average of the real power consumption for five minutes before the Dispatch Instruction if the Load level of a Load Resource had not been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT.  The actual Load response is the difference between the Baseline and the average of the real power consumption data being telemetered to ERCOT over the Settlement Interval for the period beginning 30 minutes after the Dispatch Instruction and ending at the time of recall.  The instantaneous response at any point in time during the sustained response period must be no less than 95% and no more than 150% of the Dispatch Instruction.
(4)	A Load Resource that is not a CLR providing Non-Spin must return to at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin within three hours following a recall instruction unless replaced by another Resource as described below.  However, the Load Resource should attempt to return to at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin as soon as practical considering process constraints.  For a Load Resource that is not a CLR that is unable to return to its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility within three hours of recall instruction, its QSE may replace the quantity of deficient Non-Spin capacity within that same three hours using other Resources not previously committed to provide Non-Spin.
(5)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Load Resource that is not a CLR for failure to comply with the required performance standards, based on the evaluation it performed under this Section.  Specifically, if a Load Resource that is not a CLR that is providing Non-Spin fails to respond with at least 95% of its Dispatch Instruction for Non-Spin within 30 minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction, that response shall be considered a failure.  Two Load Resource performance failures within any rolling 365-day period shall result in disqualification of that Load Resource.  After six months of disqualification, the Load Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Load Resource successfully passes qualification test as specified in Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
[NPRR1011 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of Section 8.1.1.4.3 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011; or upon system implementation for NPRR1188:]
8.1.1.4.3	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria
(1)	ERCOT shall, as part of its Ancillary Service deployment procedure under Section 6.5.7.6.2.3, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Deployment, include all performance metrics for a Resource receiving a Non-Spin recall instruction from ERCOT. 
(2)	A Non-Spin Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT must respect the minimum runtime of a Generation Resource. 
(3)	Control performance during periods in which ERCOT has manually deployed Non-Spin shall be based on the requirements below and failure to meet any one of these requirements for the greater of one or 5% of Non-Spin deployments during a month shall be reported to the Reliability Monitor as non-compliance:
(a)	Off-Line Generation Resources, within 25 minutes following a deployment instruction, must be On-Line with an Energy Offer Curve and the telemetered net generation must be greater than or equal to the Resource’s telemetered LSL multiplied by P1 where P1 is defined in the “ERCOT and QSE Operations Business Practices During the Operating Hour.”  The Resource Status that must be telemetered indicating that the Resource has come On-Line with an Energy Offer Curve is ON as described in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria.
(b)	If an Off-Line Generation Resource experiences a Startup Loading Failure (excluding those caused by operator error), the Resource may be considered for exclusion from performance non-compliance if the QSE provides to ERCOT the following documentation regarding the incident:
(i)	Its generation log documenting the Startup Loading Failure; and 
(ii)	Equipment failure documentation such as, but not limited to, GADS reports, plant operator logs, work orders, or other applicable information.  
(c)	CLRs must be available to SCED, and must have an Energy Bid Curve and the telemetered net real power consumption must be greater than or equal to the Resource’s telemetered LPC. 
(d)	For QSEs with Load Resources that are not CLRs, 30 minutes following deployment instruction, the sum of the QSE’s Load Resource response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(i)	The QSE’s award for Non-Spin from Load Resources that are not CLRs; or
(ii)	The requested MW deployment.
	The QSE’s portfolio shall maintain this response until recalled.
(e)	During periods when the Load level of a Load Resource that is not a CLR providing Non-Spin has been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the performance of a Load Resource in response to a Dispatch Instruction must be determined by subtracting the Load Resource’s actual Load response from its Baseline.  “Baseline” capacity is calculated by measuring the average of the real power consumption for five minutes before the Dispatch Instruction if the Load level of a Load Resource had not been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT.  The actual Load response is the difference between the Baseline and the average of the real power consumption data being telemetered to ERCOT over the Settlement Interval for the period beginning 30 minutes after the Dispatch Instruction and ending at the time of recall.  The instantaneous response at any point in time during the sustained response period must be no less than 95% and no more than 150% of the Dispatch Instruction.
(4)	Once Non-Spin capacity has been manually deployed by ERCOT, the Resource’s Non-Spin capacity shall remain available for dispatch by SCED until ERCOT issues a recall instruction or the Resource has exhausted its ability to maintain the deployed capacity after meeting the requirements of paragraph (2) of Section 8.1.1.3.3, Non-Spinning Reserve Capacity Monitoring Criteria, whichever occurs first.
(5)	A Load Resource that is not a CLR providing Non-Spin must return to at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin within three hours following a recall instruction unless replaced by another Resource as described below.  However, the Load Resource should attempt to return to at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin as soon as practical considering process constraints.  For a Load Resource that is not a CLR that is unable to return to its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility within three hours of recall instruction, its QSE may replace the quantity of deficient Non-Spin capacity within that same three hours using other Resources not previously committed to provide Non-Spin.
(6)	ERCOT may revoke the Ancillary Service qualification of any Load Resource that is not a CLR for failure to comply with the required performance standards, based on the evaluation it performed under this Section.  Specifically, if a Load Resource that is not a CLR that is providing Non-Spin fails to respond with at least 95% of its Dispatch Instruction for Non-Spin within 30 minutes of an ERCOT Dispatch Instruction, that response shall be considered a failure.  Two Load Resource performance failures within any rolling 365-day period shall result in disqualification of that Load Resource.  After six months of disqualification, the Load Resource may reapply for qualification provided it submits a corrective action plan to ERCOT that identifies actions taken to correct performance deficiencies and the disqualified Load Resource successfully passes qualification test as specified in Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
8.1.1.4.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria
(1)	Each QSE providing ECRS shall so indicate by appropriate entries in the Resource’s Ancillary Service Schedule and the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility providing that service.  ERCOT shall adjust the Generation Resource’s Base Point for any requested ECRS energy in the next cycle of SCED as specified in Section 6.5.7.6.2.4, Deployment and Recall of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service.  For Controllable Load Resources, the QSE shall control its Controllable Load Resources such that each operates to the Resource’s Scheduled Power Consumption minus any Ancillary Service deployments.  Control performance during periods in which ERCOT has deployed ECRS shall be based on the requirements below and failure to meet any one of these requirements shall be reported to the Reliability Monitor as non-compliance: 
(a)	Within one minute following a deployment instruction, the QSE must update the telemetered Ancillary Service Schedule for ECRS for its Generation Resources and Load Resources to reflect the deployment amount.  The difference between the sum of the QSE’s Resource ECRS schedules and the sum of the QSE’s Resource ECRS responsibilities must be equal to the QSE’s total ECRS deployment instruction, excluding the deployment to Load Resources that are not Controllable Load Resources. 
(b)	For QSEs with Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, ten minutes following deployment instruction the sum of the QSE’s Load Resource response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(i)	The QSE’s Responsibility for ECRS from non-Controllable Load Resources; or
(ii)	The requested MW deployment.
	The QSE’s portfolio shall maintain this response until recalled.  The combination of the QSE’s ECRS responsibility and additional available capacity shall not exceed 150% of the sum of the QSE’s Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for ECRS from non-Controllable Load Resources.  Any additional available capacity from Load Resources other than Controllable Load Resources shall be deployed concurrently with ECRS.
(c)	For Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, associated with a QSE that does not successfully deploy as defined under this Section, ERCOT shall evaluate, identify and investigate each Load Resource that contributed to such failure in order to determine failure under paragraph (9) of Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(d)	A Load Resource providing ECRS, excluding Controllable Load Resources, must return to at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for ECRS within three hours following a recall instruction unless replaced by another Resource as described below.  However, the Load Resource should attempt to return to at least 95% of its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for ECRS as soon as practical considering process constraints.  For a Load Resource that is not a Controllable Load Resource that is unable to return to its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility within three hours of a recall instruction, its QSE may replace the quantity of deficient ECRS capacity within that same three hours using other Generation Resources or other Load Resources not previously committed to provide ECRS.
(e)	During periods when the Load level of a Load Resource (excluding Controllable Load Resources) has been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the performance of a Load Resource in response to a Dispatch Instruction must be determined by subtracting the Load Resource’s actual Load response from its Baseline.  “Baseline” capacity is calculated by measuring the average of the real power consumption for five minutes before the Dispatch Instruction if the Load level of a Load Resource had not been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT.  The actual Load response is the average of the real power consumption data being telemetered to ERCOT during the Settlement Interval indicated in the Dispatch Instruction.
[NPRR1011:  Replace Section 8.1.1.4.4 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011:]
8.1.1.4.4	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Energy Deployment Criteria
(1)	Control performance during periods in which ERCOT has manually deployed ECRS shall be based on the requirements below and failure to meet any one of these requirements shall be reported to the Reliability Monitor as non-compliance: 
(a)	For a Resource providing ECRS with a Resource Status of ONSC, once the ECRS is deployed, the Resource must maintain the response until recalled by ERCOT.
(b)       	For QSEs with Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, ten minutes following deployment instruction the sum of the QSE’s Load Resource response shall not be less than 95% of the requested MW deployment, nor more than 150% of the lesser of the following: 
(i)	The QSE’s awards for ECRS from non-Controllable Load Resources; or
(ii)	The requested MW deployment.
	The QSE’s portfolio shall maintain this response until recalled.  
(c)	For Load Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, associated with a QSE that does not successfully deploy as defined under this Section, ERCOT shall evaluate, identify and investigate each Load Resource that contributed to such failure, in order to determine failure under paragraph (9) of Section 8.1.1.1, Ancillary Service Qualification and Testing.
(d)	For a QSE self-providing ECRS on a Load Resource, excluding Controllable Load Resources that have been deployed, the QSE may move the self-provided amount to another Load Resource, while maintaining the deployment instructions on the previously deployed Load Resources, if: 
(i) 	The Load Resource to which the ECRS is to be moved is not a Controllable Load Resource and has not been deployed for ECRS; and
(ii)	The self-provided amount of ECRS is within the QSE’s portfolio.
(e)	During periods when the Load level of a Load Resource (excluding Controllable Load Resources) has been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT, the performance of a Load Resource in response to a Dispatch Instruction must be determined by subtracting the Load Resource’s actual Load response from its Baseline.  “Baseline” capacity is calculated by measuring the average of the real power consumption for five minutes before the Dispatch Instruction if the Load level of a Load Resource had not been affected by a Dispatch Instruction from ERCOT.  The actual Load response is the average of the real power consumption data being telemetered to ERCOT during the Settlement Interval indicated in the Dispatch Instruction.
8.1.2	Current Operating Plan (COP) Performance Requirements
(1)	Each QSE representing a Resource must submit a COP in accordance with Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP).
(2)	For each QSE, ERCOT shall post for each month the number, by Operating Hour, of valid COP failures to meet the provisions of paragraphs (3) and (4) of Section 3.9.2, Current Operating Plan Validation, for Ancillary Service Resource Responsibilities contained in the QSE’s COP used for the DRUC and each HRUC during the Operating Day.  QSEs shall have no more than three hours during an Operating Day or 74 hours during a month that contains COP Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility validation failures. 
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	For each QSE, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for each month the number, by Operating Hour, of valid COP failures to meet the provisions of paragraphs (3) and (4) of Section 3.9.2, Current Operating Plan Validation, for Ancillary Service Resource Responsibilities contained in the QSE’s COP used for the DRUC and each HRUC during the Operating Day.  QSEs shall have no more than three hours during an Operating Day or 74 hours during a month that contains COP Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility validation failures.

[NPRR1011:  Delete paragraph (2) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(3)	For each QSE, ERCOT shall post for each month the number of Operating Hours during which a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-committed QSE Resource, not Off-Line as the result of a Forced Outage, failed to be On-Line and released to SCED for deployment within the first 15 minutes of the RUC-Commitment Hour.  QSEs shall have no more than three hours during an Operating Day and no more than 74 hours during a month that contains one or more of these events.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	For each QSE, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for each month the number of Operating Hours during which a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-committed QSE Resource, not Off-Line as the result of a Forced Outage, failed to be On-Line and released to SCED for deployment within the first 15 minutes of the RUC-Commitment Hour.  QSEs shall have no more than three hours during an Operating Day and no more than 74 hours during a month that contains one or more of these events.
(4)	ERCOT shall post for each QSE for each month the number of Operating Hours during which a RUC-committed Resource with a cold start time of one hour or less, not Off-Line as the result of a Forced Outage, failed to be On-Line and released to SCED (has reached its physical LSL) within its cold start time by the start of the Operating Hour for which it was RUC-committed.  Any Resource with more than one occurrence during a month whereby the cold start time is not met shall be removed from special consideration pursuant to paragraph (7) of Section 5.5.2, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process, for a period of 90 days, beginning with the next Operating Day following the second occurrence within a month.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website for each QSE for each month the number of Operating Hours during which a RUC-committed Resource with a cold start time of one hour or less, not Off-Line as the result of a Forced Outage, failed to be On-Line and released to SCED (has reached its physical LSL) within its cold start time by the start of the Operating Hour for which it was RUC-committed.  Any Resource with more than one occurrence during a month whereby the cold start time is not met shall be removed from special consideration pursuant to paragraph (7) of Section 5.5.2, Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Process, for a period of 90 days, beginning with the next Operating Day following the second occurrence within a month.
8.1.3	Emergency Response Service Performance and Testing
(1)	Performance metrics for Emergency Response Service (ERS) event performance, availability, and testing are detailed in this section for both ERS Loads and ERS Generators.
8.1.3.1	Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources
(1)	ERS Resources’ compliance will be based on their performance during ERS deployment event(s), their performance in ERS testing, and their availability during an ERS Contract Period.  The performance evaluation has three purposes:
(a)	To provide the QSE a basis for determining the ERS Resource’s offer capacity; 
(b)	To provide the basis for ERCOT to determine the ERS Resource’s availability during its committed hours in an ERS Contract Period; and 
(c)	To measure and verify the ERS Resource’s performance, as compared to its contracted capacity, during an ERS deployment event or test.
8.1.3.1.1	Baselines for Emergency Response Service Loads
(1)	As part of the ERS procurement process, ERCOT shall notify QSEs of an ERS Load’s eligibility to be evaluated on one or more of the following baselines, which are developed and administered by ERCOT consistent with the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) Practice Standards:
(a)	The “ERS Default Baseline” requires an ERS Load to reduce its Load by its contracted amount, and is a method of estimating the electricity that would have been consumed by an ERS Load in the absence of an ERS deployment event;
(b)	The “ERS Alternate Baseline” requires an ERS Load to reduce Load to a contracted level of electricity Demand (its maximum base load) in an ERS deployment event. 
(2)	ERS Default Baseline:
(a)	As part of its Resource identification process, ERCOT will determine if each ERS Load can qualify under a default baseline methodology.  A default baseline methodology is designed to predict the interval Load based on variables which may include historic Load data, weather, time of day and other relevant calendar information.  ERCOT may use other data variables in a default baseline methodology at ERCOT’s sole discretion, if ERCOT determines the additional data will enhance the accuracy of the default baseline.  Development of a default baseline for each ERS Load will be consistent with practices described in the document entitled “Demand Response Baseline Methodologies” posted on the ERCOT website.  
(b)	For aggregated ERS Loads, ERCOT may develop either a single baseline model at the aggregate level or multiple baseline models for individual sites and/or subsets of sites within the aggregation.  If ERCOT develops the model at the site and/or subset level, ERCOT shall establish the default baseline for the aggregated ERS Load by summing the baselines of the individual sites and/or subsets of sites in the aggregation.  ERCOT shall verify the performance at the ERS Load level.
(c)	ERCOT will develop a default baseline for an ERS Load by analyzing historic 15-minute interval usage data.
(d)	If ERCOT determines that an ERS Load qualifies for a default baseline, ERCOT shall provide default baseline analysis results for the ERS Load to the QSE representing that ERS Resource.
(3)	ERS Alternate Baseline:
(a)	ERCOT may assign an ERS Load to an alternate baseline formula for one of the following reasons:
(i)	ERCOT determines that the ERS Load does not have sufficient predictability for a default baseline;
(ii)	The QSE requests an alternate baseline for the ERS Load; or
(iii)	ERCOT has insufficient historical meter data available at the time of baseline evaluation to accurately model the ERS Load.
(b)	If, following ERS procurement, ERCOT determines that sufficient historical data is available and the ERS Load has sufficient predictability for a default baseline, ERCOT with the QSE’s consent may reassign the ERS Load to a default baseline, notify the QSE of the reassignment, and calculate performance for the ERS Contract Period accordingly.  
(c)	Under the alternate baseline formula, ERCOT shall calculate an ERS Load’s average (mean) Load (MWh) over the most recent available 12-month period, with an emphasis on the months corresponding to the upcoming ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT will validate the MW capacity offer for each ERS Load for the applicable ERS Time Period, based upon the difference between this average Load calculation (MWh) and the ERS Load’s declared maximum base Load (MWh).  In selecting an ERS Load with an alternate baseline, ERCOT may award the lesser of the MW offer or the MW capacity validated by ERCOT.  
(4)	ERS Weather-Sensitive Load:
(a)	ERCOT shall assign a residential Weather-Sensitive ERS Load to either the regression baseline performance evaluation methodology or the control group baseline performance evaluation methodology.  Both methodologies are described in the document entitled “Demand Response Baseline Methodologies” posted to the ERCOT website.  The control group baseline performance evaluation methodology shall only be available to ERS Loads consisting entirely of residential sites.
(i)	At least nine months of interval data for all sites within an ERS Load are required for the Load to be eligible for the regression baseline evaluation methodology.  If one or more sites lack sufficient interval data, the ERS Load will either be evaluated using the control group baseline performance evaluation methodology or will be disqualified from participation as an ERS Load.
(ii)	Sites in an ERS Load assigned to the control group baseline are required to have fully functional interval metering in place at the start of an ERS Standard Contract Term, but are not required to have historical meter data prior to that time.
(iii)	If ERCOT determines that the residential ERS Load may be assigned to either baseline methodology, the QSE may select its preferred option.
(b)	If the ERS Load consists of non-residential sites, the ERS Load must qualify for at least one ERS default baseline methodology, as described in paragraph (2) above.
(c)	For an ERS Load assigned to the control group baseline, ERCOT will divide the aggregation into multiple randomly assigned numbered groups for purposes of testing and deployment event Dispatch, and one of these groups will be designated as the control group, to be held out of the test or event, at time of Dispatch.  All remaining ERS Loads will participate and be evaluated in each test or event relative to the control group.  ERCOT will strive to minimize control group size while preserving the ability to achieve accurate Demand response measurement and verification.  The number of groups, group size and group designations are subject to change if the QSE adjusts the population of the ERS Load during the ERS Standard Contract Term, as described in paragraph (15) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement.
(5)	All ESI IDs within an aggregated ERS Load must be on the same baseline methodology (either the ERS Default Baseline, or the ERS Alternate Baseline). 
8.1.3.1.2	Performance Evaluation for Emergency Response Service Generators
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate the event performance of an ERS Generator by measuring net injection of energy to the ERCOT System using data from metering as described in paragraph (5)(a) of Section 3.14.3.3, Emergency Response Service Provision and Technical Requirements.
(2)	A Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS Load will be classified as co-located with an ERS Generator if each site in the ERS Load is physically located with a site in the ERS Generator, and if both the ERS Generator and the ERS Load are represented by the same QSE and are participating in the same ERS service type and Time Periods.  If separate offers are received from different QSEs, both offers will be rejected.  A Weather-Sensitive ERS Load is not eligible to be classified as co-located with an ERS Generator.
(3)	If an ERS Generator is co-located with an ERS Load the following shall apply:
(a)	If a default baseline has been selected by a QSE for ERS performance evaluation for an ERS Load that is co-located with an ERS Generator, event and test performance of the ERS Generator and ERS Load shall be evaluated jointly using interval data from the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) installed metering. The joint performance will be attributed to both the ERS Load and ERS Generator.
(b) 	The self-serve capacity used to calculate availability in each ERS Time Period for the ERS Generator shall be deemed to be the lesser of the self-serve capacity specified on the offer or the peak Load of the ERS Load during that ERS Time Period over the 12 months preceding the beginning of the ERS Standard Contract Term.
(c)	If the co-located ERS Load is assigned to the ERS Alternate Baseline, the performance during an ERS deployment event or ERCOT test shall be evaluated using one of two methods selected by the QSE:
(i)	The QSE may elect to have the performance of the ERS Generator and ERS Load evaluated separately.  In this case:
(A)	All site Load must participate in the ERS Load and ERCOT shall calculate interval-by-interval values for the Load of each site in the ERS Load by adding the MWh output measured by the QSE-installed metering on the generator(s) at the site to the MWh consumption measured by the TDSP metering and by subtracting the MWh export from the site, as measured by the TDSP metering.  The performance of the ERS Load shall be evaluated using the ERCOT calculated values of the site Load.
(B)	The ERS Generator shall be evaluated using the interval data measured by the metering on the output of the generator(s) as required by paragraph (5)(a) of Section 3.14.3.3.  For purposes of determining ERS Generator performance, the injection capacity in each ERS Time Period for the ERS Generator shall be deemed to be the sum of self-serve capacity and injection capacity submitted on the offer for that ERS Time Period, and the self-serve capacity used to measure performance for that ERS Time Period shall be deemed to be zero. 
(ii)	The QSE may elect to have the performance of the ERS Generator and ERS Load evaluated jointly.  In this case, ERCOT shall use the TDSP metering installed for the performance evaluation.
(A)	If ERCOT determines that one of its established default baseline types accurately represents the ERS Load’s Demand response contribution, the contribution of the ERS Load to the joint performance shall be based on that response.
(B)	If ERCOT determines that none of its established default baseline types accurately represents the ERS Load’s Demand response contribution, the contribution of the ERS Load to the joint performance shall be deemed to be the product of the ERS Load’s obligation for the interval and the ERS Interval Performance Factor (EIPFi) as computed in Section 8.1.3.1.4, Event Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources.
(C)	The joint performance will be attributed to both the ERS Load and ERS Generator.
(4)	If the ERS Generator is not co-located with an ERS Load the following shall apply:
(a)	For purposes of determining ERS performance, the self-serve capacity used to measure performance in each time period for the ERS Generator shall be deemed to be zero and the injection capacity used to measure performance shall be equal to the amount submitted on the offer.
(b)	The ERS Generator shall have its performance based on its metered output to the ERCOT System as measured by the TDSP metering.
8.1.3.1.3	Availability Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources
(1)	No later than 45 days after the end of an ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT shall provide each QSE representing ERS Resources with an availability report for its ERS portfolio for each ERS service type.  The report shall contain:
(a)	For each ERS Time Period and each ERS Contract Period in the ERS Standard Contract Term, the ERS availability factor (ERSAF) for each ERS Resource in the QSE’s ERS portfolio, as described in Sections 8.1.3.1.3.1, Time Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Loads, and 8.1.3.1.3.2, Time Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Generators.
(b)	For each ERS Contract Period in the ERS Standard Contract Term, the QSE’s portfolio-level availability factor, as described in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities.
(c)	The QSE’s portfolio-level availability factor for the Standard Contract Term, as described in Section 8.1.3.3. 
8.1.3.1.3.1	Time Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Loads
(1)	For an ERS Load on an ERS Default Baseline, ERCOT will calculate its ERSAF as follows:
(a)	ERCOT will consider the ERS Load to have been unavailable for a 15-minute interval in a contracted ERS Time Period in which any of the following apply:
(i) 	The interval Load of the ERS Load was less than 95% of its contracted ERS MW capacity; or
(ii)	Required metered interval data was not provided to ERCOT by the time ERCOT calculated availability for one or more sites in the ERS Resource.  
(b)  	Otherwise, the ERS Load will be considered available for that 15-minute interval.  The ERSAF will be the ratio of the number of 15-minute intervals the ERS Load was available during the ERS Time Period divided by the total number of 15-minute intervals in the ERS Time Period.
(c)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, in determining the ERSAF, ERCOT will exclude from the calculation the following contracted intervals: 

(i)	Any 15-minute interval in which the ERS Load was deployed during an ERS deployment event or unannounced test, including intervals that begin during the ten-hour ERS recovery period following the issuance of the recall instruction; and
(ii)	Any 15-minute interval following an ERS deployment resulting in exhaustion of the ERS Load’s obligation in an ERS Contract Period.
(2)	For an ERS Load assigned to the alternate baseline, ERCOT will calculate its ERSAF for an ERS Time Period using the following formula:
ERSAF qce(tp)d  = MIN (1, (AV qce(tp)d / (OFFERMW qce(tp)d)))
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
AV qce(tp)d	MW	Average MW Load, calculated as the average of the actual interval MW values or the MW values determined in accordance with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) below, per 15-minute interval for an ERS Load in a contracted ERS Time Period per ERS service type d, excluding declared maximum base Load. 
OFFERMW qce(tp)d	MW	An ERS Load’s contracted capacity for an ERS Time Period, per ERS service type d, applicable to either competitively procured or self-provided ERS.
ERSAF qce(tp)d	None	Availability factor for an ERS Load for an ERS Time Period per ERS service type d.
q	None	A QSE.
c	None	ERS Contract Period.
e	None	An ERS Load.
tp	None	ERS Time Period.
d	None	ERS service type (Weather-Sensitive ERS-10, Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-10, Weather -Sensitive ERS-30, or Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-30).
(a)	If the ERS Load is co-located with an ERS Generator and the QSE has opted for separate evaluation, its Load, for purposes of availability calculations, shall be determined as specified in paragraph (3)(c) of Section 8.1.3.1.2, Performance Evaluation for Emergency Response Service Generators.  
(b) 	For purposes of calculating availability, the interval MW value will be deemed to be equal to the declared maximum base Load if the following condition is met:
(i)	Required metered interval data was not provided to ERCOT by the time ERCOT calculated availability for one or more sites in the ERS Resource.   
(c)	For purposes of calculating availability, ERCOT shall exclude from the average any 15-minute interval meeting one or more of the following descriptions:
(i)	Any 15-minute interval in which the ERS Load was deployed during an ERS deployment event or unannounced test, including intervals that begin during the ten-hour ERS recovery period following the issuance of the recall instruction; or
(ii)	Any 15-minute interval following the ERS deployment resulting in exhaustion of the ERS Load’s obligation in an ERS Contract Period.
(3)	A Weather-Sensitive ERS Load shall always have its availability factor for an ERS Contract Period set to 1.0 and its availability settlement weighting factor (ERSAFWT) set to zero.
8.1.3.1.3.2	Time Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Generators
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate the availability of an ERS Generator by using data from 15-minute interval metering dedicated to the ERS Generator.
(2)	ERCOT will calculate an ERSAF using interval meter readings for an ERS Generator for each committed ERS Time Period as the ratio of the number of 15-minute intervals the ERS Generator was available in the ERS Time Period divided by the total number of obligated 15-minute intervals in the ERS Time Period.  ERS Generators are considered available for any 15-minute interval except the following:
(a)	An ERS Generator that is not co-located with an ERS Load will be considered unavailable for all 15-minute intervals that are part of an unsuccessful unannounced ERCOT test or event, as well as any subsequent intervals following the end of the test or event up to the interval immediately preceding the first full 15-minute interval for which the ERS Generator injects energy to the ERCOT System at a level greater than or equal to the sum of its injection capacity and obligation at the time of the test or event.  The success or lack of success of an unannounced ERCOT test or event is determined by the criteria specified in Section 8.1.3.2, Testing of Emergency Response Service Resources.
(b)	An ERS Generator that is co-located with an ERS Load and is being separately evaluated from the ERS Load will be considered unavailable for all 15-minute intervals that are part of an unsuccessful unannounced ERCOT test or event, as well as any subsequent intervals following the end of the test up to the interval immediately preceding the first full 15-minute interval for which the ERS Generator’s output energy is greater than or equal to  the sum of its injection capacity and obligation at the time of the test or event.  The success or lack of success of an unannounced ERCOT test or event is determined by the criteria specified in Section 8.1.3.2.
(c) 	An ERS Generator that is co-located with an ERS Load and is being evaluated jointly with the ERS Load will be considered unavailable for all 15-minute intervals that are part of an unsuccessful unannounced ERCOT test or event, as well as any subsequent intervals following the end of the test up to the interval immediately preceding the first full 15-minute interval for which the combined performance of the ERS Load and ERS Generator is greater than or equal to the combined obligation at the time of the test or event.  The success or lack of success of an unannounced ERCOT test or event is determined by the criteria specified in Section 8.1.3.2.   
(d)	An ERS Generator will be considered unavailable during any 15-minute interval of an obligated ERS Time Period in which any of the following conditions are present:
(i)	The ERS Generator output is greater than the sum of its self-serve capacity and its declared injection capacity for the ERS Time Period; 
(ii)	The export to the grid for the ERS Generator is greater than the injection capacity for the ERS Time Period; or
(iii)	Required metered interval data was not provided to ERCOT by the time ERCOT calculated availability for one or more sites in the ERS Resource.
(e)	ERCOT shall exclude any 15-minute intervals meeting one or more of the following descriptions from the availability: 
(i)	Any 15-minute interval in which the ERS Generator was deployed during an ERS deployment event or unannounced test, including intervals that begin during the ten-hour ERS recovery period following the issuance of the recall instruction; and
(ii)	15-minute intervals during a successfully completed ERCOT unannounced test of the ERS Generator including intervals that begin during the ten-hour ERS recovery period.
8.1.3.1.3.3	Contract Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Resources 
(1)	ERCOT shall compute a single time- and capacity-weighted availability factor (ERSAFCOMB) for each ERS Resource for an ERS Contract Period from the ERS Time Period ERSAFs calculated in Sections 8.1.3.1.1, Baselines for Emergency Response Service Loads, and 8.1.3.1.3.2, Time Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Generators, as follows:
If HOURS qce(tp)d = 0, ERSAFCOMB qced = 1
Otherwise
ERSAFCOMB qced =   (HOURS qce(tp)d * OFFERMW qce(tp)d * ERSAF qce(tp)d) /   (HOURS qce(tp)d * OFFERMW qce(tp)d)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
ERSAFCOMB qced	None	Time- and capacity-weighted availability factor for an ERS Contract Period per ERS service type d.
HOURS qce(tp)d	Hours	The number of hours an ERS Resource is obligated in an ERS Time Period per ERS service type d minus any hours in that Time Period excluded for purposes of computing availability.
OFFERMW qce(tp)d	MWh	The ERS Resource’s contracted capacity for that time period per ERS service type d expressed in units of MWh.
ERSAF qce(tp)d	None	Availability factor for an ERS Resource for an ERS Time Period and per ERS service type d.
q	None	A QSE.
c	None	ERS Contract Period.
e	None	Individual ERS Resource.
tp	None	ERS Time Period.
d 	None	ERS service type (Weather-Sensitive ERS-10, Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-10, Weather-Sensitive ERS-30, or Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-30).

(2)	In an ERS Contract Period with no ERS deployment events, the ERSAFWT for all ERS Resources shall be set to 1.0. 
(3)	In an ERS Contract Period with one or more ERS deployment events and in which no ERS Resource’s ERS obligation is exhausted, the ERSAFWT for deployed ERS Resources shall be set to 0.25 and the ERSAFWT for all undeployed ERS Resources shall be set to 1.0.
(4)	If, pursuant to Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement, an ERS Contract Period is shorter than the associated ERS Standard Contract Term the following shall apply:
(a)	For all deployed ERS Resources, the ERSAFWT of the exhausted or discontinued ERS Resource shall be set to 0.25 × ERSAFHRS qced with ERSAFHRS qced determined as calculated in paragraph (c) below.  
(b)	For all ERS Resources with no deployments during the ERS Contract Period, ERSAFWT shall be set to 1.0.
(c)	ERSAFHRSqced for the ERS Contract Period shall be calculated using the following formula:
ERSAFHRS qced = AFHOURS qced /  HOURS qse(tp)d
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
ERSAFHRS qced	None	The ratio of Availability Factor Hours (AFHOURS qced) to the total awarded hours in the ERS Standard Contract Term s for ERS Resource e per ERS service type d.
AFHOURS qced  	Hours	The total number of the ERS Resource’s obligated hours in ERS Contract Period c, minus any hours during that time excluded for purposes of computing availability.
HOURS qse(tp)d	Hours	The total number of awarded hours for ERS Resource e for ERS Time Period tp in the ERS Standard Contract Term s.
q	None	A QSE.
s	None	ERS Standard Contract Term.
c	None	ERS Contract Period.
e	None	Individual ERS Resource.
tp	None	ERS Time Period.
d 	None	ERS service type (Weather-Sensitive ERS-10, Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-10, Weather-Sensitive ERS-30, or Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-30).
(d)	An ERS Resource shall be deemed to have met its availability requirements for an ERS Contract Period if ERSAFHRS for the ERS Contract Period is less than 0.5 and if the ERS Resource achieves an ERSAFCOMB greater than or equal to the value calculated in the formula below:
3.8 * ERSAFHRS qced – 3.8 * (ERSAFHRS qced)2
(e)	An ERS Resource that is deemed to have met its availability requirements under paragraph (d) above shall have its availability factor for that ERS Contract Period set to 1.0.
8.1.3.1.4	Event Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources
(1)	No later than 45 days after the end of an ERS Standard Contract Term in which one or more ERS deployment events occurred, ERCOT shall provide each QSE representing ERS Resources with an event performance report containing the results of ERCOT’s evaluation of the event(s).  The report shall contain:
(a)	For each event, the ERS event performance factor (ERSEPF) for each ERS Resource in the QSE’s ERS portfolio, as described in this Section;
(b)	For each event, the QSE’s portfolio-level event performance factor, as described in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities;
(c)	The QSE’s portfolio-level event performance factor for the ERS Standard Contract Term, as described in Section 8.1.3.3. 
(2)	An ERS Resource’s performance shall not be evaluated for an ERS deployment if one of the following is true:
(a) 	The Resource is in a ten-hour recovery period following a prior deployment at the beginning of the sustained response period of the deployment;
(b)	The ERS Resource does not have an obligation for at least one full interval during the Sustained Response Period of that event;
(c)	For Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS Resources, one or more sites of an ERS Resource were disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline.  QSEs must provide verification of such events from the TDSP or Meter Reading Entity (MRE); or
(d)	For Weather-Sensitive ERS Resources, 10% or more sites of an ERS Load were disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline.
(3)	Otherwise, ERCOT shall evaluate an ERS Resource’s performance during an ERS deployment based on the following criteria:
(a)	Within the applicable ramp period, ERS Loads shall curtail Load and ERS Generators shall output energy and reach a level of energy injection to the ERCOT System in accordance with their ERS contractual obligations.  The ramp period for ERS Resources in ERS-10 is ten minutes.  The ramp period for ERS Resources in ERS-30 is 30 minutes.
(b)	An ERS Load on a default baseline is expected to not increase its Load during the ramp period prior to an ERS test or deployment event.  ERCOT will deem repeated occurrences of such Load increases to be a violation of the Protocols. 
(c)	ERCOT shall measure each ERS Resource’s performance throughout the duration of an ERS deployment event by analyzing 15-minute interval meter data associated with the ERS Resource.  ERCOT will compute an ERSEPF for each ERS Resource based upon this analysis.  
(i)	The ERSEPF is computed as the time-weighted arithmetic average of the EIPFs for the Sustained Response Period.  An EIPF is computed for the ERS Resource for each of the 15-minute intervals in an ERS Sustained Response Period for which the ERS Resource has contracted capacity.  If the last interval of the Sustained Response Period has an interval fraction (IntFrac) of less than one, the EIPF for that interval shall be excluded for the computation of ERSEPF.  For an interval, EIPFi is computed as follows:
EIPF i 	= 	Max(Min(((Base_MWh i – Actual_MWh i) / (IntFrac i * OFFERMW)),1),0)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
IntFrac i	None	Interval fraction for that ERS Resource for that interval.
Base_MWh i	MWh	For an ERS Load on a default baseline, the aggregated sum of baseline MWh values estimated by ERCOT for all sites in the ERS Load for that interval.
For an ERS Load assigned to the alternate baseline, the sum of the ERS Load’s OFFERMW and maximum base Load for that interval.
For a stand-alone ERS Generator or an ERS Generator co-located and jointly evaluated with an ERS Load, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System for that interval.
For an ERS Generator co-located with, but evaluated separately from an ERS Load, the energy output of the ERS Generator.
Actual_MWh i	MWh	For an ERS Load, the aggregated sum of the actual MWh values for all sites in the ERS Load for that interval.
For an ERS Generator, the ERS Generator’s declared injection capacity, expressed in units of MWh.
OFFERMW	MWh	The ERS Resource’s contracted capacity for that interval expressed in units of MWh.
i	None	An interval.
	and where IntFrac i corresponds to the fraction of time for that interval for which the Sustained Response Period is in effect and is computed as follows:
IntFrac i = (CEndT i – CBegT i) / 15
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Description
IntFrac i	None	Interval fraction for that ERS Resource for that interval.
CBegT i	Minutes	If the Sustained Response Period begins after the start of that interval, the time in minutes from the beginning of that interval to the beginning of the Sustained Response Period, otherwise it is zero.
CEndT i	Minutes	If the Sustained Response Period ends during that interval, the time in minutes from the beginning of that interval to the end of the Sustained Response Period, otherwise it is 15.
i	None	An interval.
(ii)	For an ERS Load assigned to an alternate baseline, if the IntFrac for the first interval of the Sustained Response Period is less than one, the EIPF for that interval shall be calculated as follows:  
(A)	If the actual Load of the full 15-minute interval is less than the maximum base Load, the EIPF for that interval shall be set to one.
(B)	If the QSE submits interval data for the day of the event that is more granular than at the 15-minute interval level that shows the average Load for the ERS Resource was below its maximum base Load for the portion of the interval in the Sustained Response Period, the EIPF for that interval shall be set to one.  This submitted data must be in a format acceptable to ERCOT and include, at a minimum, the actual Load and associated time stamps.
(C)	If the QSE submits other documentary evidence that ERCOT determines, in its discretion, demonstrates the average Load for the ERS Resource was below its maximum base Load for the portion of the interval in the Sustained Response Period, the EIPF for that interval shall be set to one.  The documentary evidence must be supported by a sworn affidavit.
(D)	If none of the above applies, then ERCOT shall calculate EIPF using the formula in subsection (i) above with Base_MWhi determined using one of the baselines described in the document titled “Demand Response Baseline Methodologies” on ERCOT.com.
(iii)	In any ERS Standard Contract Term in which ERCOT has deployed ERS, the ERSEPF for an ERS Resource shall be the time-weighted average of the event performance factors for all events for which the ERS Resource was deployed. 
(iv)	Irrespective of its ERSEPF, an ERS Resource shall be deemed to have met its event performance requirements if it is an ERS Load determined by ERCOT to have met its Load reduction obligations in the ERS deployment event if measured on one of ERCOT’s established default baseline types other than the baseline type selected by the QSE, and ERCOT determines that the different baseline more accurately represents the ERS Load’s Demand response contribution.
(4)	For an ERS deployment event, ERCOT shall calculate EIPFs and an ERSEPF for a Weather-Sensitive ERS Load, using actual 15-minute interval meter data, or, for Distributed Renewable Generation (DRG) that has been designated by the QSE to be evaluated by using its native load calculated 15-minute interval native load data, consistent with the provisions of paragraph (3)(c)(i) above.  No other provisions in paragraph (3) above shall apply to Weather-Sensitive ERS Loads.
(5)	Regardless of the number of enrolled sites in the Weather-Sensitive ERS Load at the time of an event or test, the contracted capacity value (OFFERMW) used will be the value submitted by the QSE in its offer.
8.1.3.2	Testing of Emergency Response Service Resources
(1)	ERCOT may conduct an unannounced test of any ERS Resource at any time during an ERS Time Period in which the ERS Resource is contracted to provide ERS.  Prior to the beginning of a Standard Contract Term, a QSE may request that one or more of its ERS Resources awarded in ERS-30 be tested as if subject to a ten-minute ramp during that ERS Standard Contract Term.  The duration of a test will not count toward the ERS Resource’s maximum cumulative deployment time for an ERS Contract Period.  
(a)	For Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS Resources, ERCOT shall determine a test performance factor for each test using the methodology defined in Section 8.1.3.1.4, Event Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources.  
(i)	The test performance factors for Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS Resources resulting from those tests will be used in Settlement for that and subsequent ERS Standard Contract Terms as specified in Section 8.1.3.3, Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities.  
(ii)	A test shall be deemed to be successful if the ERS Resource achieves both a test performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an EIPF for the full first interval of the test of 0.95 or greater.  
(iii)	An ERS Resource for which the most recent test with a ten-minute ramp was successful shall not be subject to a test for at least 330 days regardless of whether the ERS Resource is participating in ERS-10 or ERS-30.  
(iv)	An ERS Resource for which the most recent test with a 30-minute ramp was successful shall not be subject to a test for at least 330 days unless the ERS Resource participates in ERS-10 during that period.  
(v)	An ERS Resource participating in ERS-10 that meets its ERS-10 performance obligations for all ERS deployment events by achieving both an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an EIPF for the full first interval of 0.95 or greater during an ERS Standard Contract Term shall not be subject to a test for ERS-10 or ERS-30 for at least 330 calendar days following the date of the last deployment of ERS-10 during that ERS Standard Contract Term.  
(vi)	An ERS Resource participating in ERS-30 that meets its ERS-30 performance obligations for all ERS deployment events by achieving both an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an EIPF for the full first interval of 0.95 or greater during an ERS Standard Contract Term shall not be subject to a test for ERS-30 for at least 330 calendar days following the date of the last deployment of ERS-30 during that ERS Standard Contract Term.  
(vii)	Notwithstanding the foregoing:
(A)	If the ERSAFCOMB for an ERS Resource for an ERS Standard Contract Term consisting of a single ERS Contract Period is less than 0.85, or the ERSAFCOMB for an ERS Resource for an ERS Contract Period with a duration that is less than an ERS Standard Contract Term is lower than the threshold specified in paragraph (4)(d) of Section 8.1.3.1.3.3, Contract Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Resources, ERCOT may re-test that ERS Resource without regard to the 330 day limit specified above.
(B)	If an ERS Resource is contracted to provide services under a Must-Run Alternative (MRA) Agreement and has an ERS obligation during an overlapping ERS Standard Contract Term, ERCOT may conduct additional testing to verify the site’s ability to provide both services on the same or consecutive days.  Such testing may be conducted without regard to the 330 day limit specified above and without regard to any recovery periods allowed for either ERS or the MRA Agreement.
(C)	If a single TDSP-metered Premise has more than one ERS site and those ERS sites participate in different ERS Resources, then all of those ERS Resources will be subject to testing if any one of the ERS Resources is subject to testing.
(b)	Testing will be considered void and would require re-testing for any non-weather-sensitive Resources if one or more sites of an ERS Resource were disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline.  QSEs must provide verification of such events from the TDSP or MRE.
(c)	For Weather-Sensitive ERS Resources, ERCOT shall conduct unannounced testing of each Weather-Sensitive ERS Load at least once but no more than twice per month of obligation during an ERS Standard Contract Term, unless testing has been superseded by deployment events as described in paragraph (vii) below.
(i)	The tests will be conducted according to normal ERS testing procedures.
(ii)	At the time of Dispatch during a test, ERCOT will not advise the QSE of the test duration, which may vary from one full 15-minute interval to 12 full 15-minute intervals.
(iii)	ERCOT may conduct a test during any of a Weather-Sensitive ERS Load’s obligated hours.  However, tests will generally be targeted toward periods of peak weather conditions. 
(iv)	For a Weather-Sensitive ERS Load assigned to the control group baseline, for each test ERCOT will designate a single group which shall be removed from the test population that will serve as the control group.
(v)	ERCOT shall calculate a test performance factor for each test of a Weather-Sensitive ERS Load using the event performance methodology described in Section 8.1.3.1.4.
(vi)	The QSE is responsible for managing group assignments and for deploying only the sites dispatched by ERCOT during a test.
(vii)	ERCOT may reduce the number of tests administered by the number of deployment events during the ERS Standard Contract Term. 
(viii)	The test performance factors for Weather-Sensitive ERS Resources shall always be set to one for use in Settlement for the ERS Standard Contract Term.
(ix)	Testing will be considered void for any weather-sensitive Resources if 10% or more sites of a weather-sensitive Resource were disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline.  QSEs must provide verification of such events from the TDSP or MRE.
(2)	ERCOT shall conduct an unannounced test of an ERS Resource that has been suspended from participation in ERS pursuant to Section 8.1.3.3.  ERCOT will conduct such a test only after the QSE representing the ERS Resource has communicated to ERCOT a request for reinstatement of the suspended ERS Resource.
(3)	An ERCOT unannounced test of an ERS Generator must demonstrate injection of energy to the ERCOT System.  The use of Load banks is prohibited for ERCOT unannounced tests.
(4)	If an ERS Generator is co-located with an ERS Load as specified in Section 8.1.3.1.2, Performance Evaluation for Emergency Response Service Generators, ERCOT shall test both such ERS Resources simultaneously and the following shall apply:
(a)	Test performance of the ERS Load and the ERS Generator shall be evaluated jointly and attributed to both if the ERS Load is assigned to a default baseline or is assigned to the alternate baseline and the QSE elected for joint evaluation at the beginning of the ERS Standard Contract Term.
(b)	Test performance of the ERS Load and the ERS Generator shall be evaluated separately if the ERS Load is assigned to the alternate baseline and the QSE elected for separate evaluation at the beginning of the ERS Standard Contract Term.  If the separately evaluated ERS Load has no obligation greater than 100 kW in any ERS Time Period and does not meet the criteria for a successful test as defined in item (1)(a)(ii) above, the following shall apply:
(i)	If the interval data measured by the metering on the output of the generator(s) meets the criteria for a successful test as defined in item (1)(a)(ii) above, for the combined obligation of the ERS Load and the ERS Generator, then both the ERS Load and the ERS Generator will be deemed to have performed successfully for that ERS test.
(ii)	Otherwise, the ERS Load will be considered to have not performed successfully for that ERS test.
(5)	In order to assist QSEs and ERS Resources in managing environmental compliance, ERCOT shall limit the cumulative duration of Sustained Response Periods of testing of an ERS Resource to a maximum of one hour per ERS Standard Contract Term unless otherwise required to conduct re-testing.
(6)	Notwithstanding paragraph (5) above, Weather-Sensitive ERS Resources shall be subject to testing as described in paragraph (1)(c) above.
8.1.3.3	Payment Reductions and Suspension of Qualification of Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities
8.1.3.3.1	Suspension of Qualification of Non-Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Resources and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities
(1)	If a QSE’s portfolio-level availability factor and event performance factors as calculated in Section 8.1.3.3.3, Performance Criteria for Qualified Scheduling Entities Representing Non Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Resources, both equal or exceed 0.95, the QSE will be deemed to have met its ERS performance requirements for the ERS Contract Period, and the QSE and its ERS Resources are not subject to suspension.
(2)	If a QSE fails to meet its portfolio-level availability and/or event performance requirements as described in Section 8.1.3.3.3, ERCOT shall take the following actions:
(a)	If a QSE failure is based only on event performance failure and ERS Resources that comprise 95% or more of the QSE’s obligation for each of the events in the ERS Contract Term are deemed to have met their obligations, the QSE shall be deemed to have met its event performance requirements for the ERS Contract Term; otherwise
(b)	ERCOT may suspend the QSE from participation in ERS, and the QSE may be subject to administrative penalties imposed by the PUCT.  ERCOT may consider mitigating factors such as equipment failures and Force Majeure Events in determining whether to suspend the QSE.
(3)	If a QSE’s portfolio-level availability factor is less than 0.95 excluding the intervals for Resources that had one or more sites of an ERS Resource disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline, ERS Resources in that portfolio that were not disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline shall be subject to the following: 
(a)	If an ERS Resource in the QSE’s portfolio achieves an availability factor of 0.85 or greater, the ERS Resource shall not be subject to a reduction of its availability factor; 
(b)	If an ERS Resource achieves an ERSAFCOMB less than 0.85 for an ERS Standard Contract Term consisting of a single ERS Contract Period, or achieves an ERSAFCOMB lower than the threshold specified in paragraph (4)(d) of Section 8.1.3.1.3.3, Contract Period Availability Calculations for Emergency Response Service Resources, for an ERS Contract Period with a duration that is less than an ERS Standard Contract Term, then the ERS Resource’s availability factor shall be squared; and
(c)	If the availability factor for one or more ERS Resources is squared pursuant to paragraph (b) above, ERCOT shall compute the QSE’s final portfolio-level availability factor using that modified availability factor. 
(4)	ERCOT shall calculate a QSE’s portfolio-level event performance factor and interval performance factor for the first full interval of that event. The portfolio for this purpose shall consist of ERS Resources that did not have any sites that were disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline. If either the portfolio-level event performance factor or the interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period is less than 0.95, ERCOT shall determine final event performance factors for ERS Resources in the portfolio as follows: 
(a)	If an ERS Load in the QSE’s portfolio is not co-located with an ERS Generator or is evaluated separately, as specified in Section 8.1.3.1.2, Performance Evaluation for Emergency Response Service Generators, the final event performance factor for the ERS Load shall be determined as follows:
(i)	If the ERS Load achieves an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of 0.95 or greater, the final event performance factor shall be set equal to the original event performance factor.
(ii)	If the ERS Load achieves an event performance factor of less than 0.95 and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of 0.95 or greater, the baseline for that ERS Load shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to the square of its original event performance factor.
(iii)	If the ERS Load achieves an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of less than 0.95, the baseline for that ERS Resource shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times its original event performance factor.
(iv)	If the ERS Load achieves an event performance factor of less than 0.95 and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of less than 0.95, the baseline for that ERS Resource shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times the square of its original event performance factor.
(b)	If an ERS Generator in the QSE’s portfolio, is not co-located with an ERS Load, the final event performance factor for the ERS Generator shall be determined as follows:
(i)	If the ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of 0.95 or greater, the final event performance factor shall be set equal to original event performance factor.
(ii)	If the ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of less than 0.95 and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of 0.95 or greater, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to the square of its original event performance factor.
(iii)	If the ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of less than 0.95, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times its original event performance factor.
(iv)	If the ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of less than 0.95 and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of less than 0.95, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times the square of its original event performance factor.
(c)	If an ERS Generator in the QSE’s portfolio, is co-located with an ERS Load and is evaluated separately, as specified in Section 8.1.3.1.2, the final event performance factor for the ERS Generator shall be determined as follows:
(i)	If the ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of 0.95 or greater, the final event performance factor shall be set equal to original event performance factor.
(ii)	If the ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of less than 0.95 and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of 0.95 or greater, the energy output by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to the square of its original event performance factor.
(iii)	If the ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of less than 0.95, the energy output by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times its original event performance factor.
(iv)	If the ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of less than 0.95 and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of less than 0.95, the energy output by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times the square of its original event performance factor.
(d)	If an ERS Load and an ERS Generator in a QSE’s portfolio, are co-located and are evaluated jointly, as specified in Section 8.1.3.1.2, the final event performance factor shall be determined as follows:
(i)	If the combined performance of the ERS Load and ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of 0.95 or greater, the final event performance factor for both ERS Resources shall be set equal to original event performance factor.
(ii)	If the combined performance of the ERS Load and ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of less than 0.95 and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of 0.95 or greater, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final combined event performance factor being equal to the square of its original combined event performance factor.  If a reduction factor of zero results in the combined event performance factor being greater than the square of the original combined event performance factor, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System shall be set to zero for all intervals in the event and the baseline for the ERS Load shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final combined event performance factor being equal to the square of the original combined event performance factor.
(iii)	If the combined performance of the ERS Load and ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of 0.95 or greater and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of less than 0.95, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final combined event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times its original event performance factor.  If a reduction factor of zero results in the combined event performance factor being greater than 0.75 times its original event performance factor, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System shall be set to zero for all intervals in the event and the baseline for the ERS Load shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final combined event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times its original event performance factor.
(iv)	If the combined performance of the ERS Load and ERS Generator achieves an event performance factor of less than 0.95 and an interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period of less than 0.95, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System by the ERS Generator for each interval of the event shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final combined event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times the square of its original event performance factor.  If a reduction factor of zero results in the combined event performance factor being greater than 0.75 times the square of its original event performance factor, the net energy injected to the ERCOT System shall be set to zero for all intervals in the event and the baseline for the ERS Load shall be multiplied by a reduction factor that results in the final combined event performance factor being equal to 0.75 times the square of its original event performance factor.
(e)	If the final event performance factor for one or more ERS Resources in a QSE’s portfolio is reduced pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) above, ERCOT shall re-compute the QSE’s final portfolio-level event performance factor using each ERS Resource’s final event performance factor. 
(5)	If an ERS Resource, in accordance with Section 8.1.3.2, Testing of Emergency Response Service Resources, has failed any two consecutive tests in an ERS Standard Contract Term, or has failed both the first test in an ERS Standard Contract Term and the most recent prior test occurring within 365 days of that first failed test, ERSTESTPF shall be set to the lower of 0.75 or the average of those two test performance factors and shall be used in calculating the payment to the QSE for the ERS Standard Contract Term during which the second failure occurred.  Otherwise, ERSTESTPF shall be set to 1.0.
(6)	Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (5) above, if an ERS Resource, in accordance with Section 8.1.3.2, has failed the most recent three consecutive tests within a 365 day period, then ERSTESTPF for the ERS Standard Contract Term in which the most recent failure has occurred, shall be determined as follows:
(a)	If the average of ERSTESTPF for those three tests is equal to 0.90 or greater, ERSTESTPF shall be set to 0.5.
(b)	If the average of ERSTESTPF for those three tests is less than 0.90, ERSTESTPF shall be set zero.
(c)	If the ERS Resource has failed the most recent four consecutive tests within a 365 day period, then ERSTESTPF for the ERS Standard Contract Term in which the most recent failure has occurred, shall be set to zero.
(7)	Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (5) and (6) above, if an ERS Resource, in accordance with Section 8.1.3.1.4, Event Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources, successfully deploys in all ERS deployment events in which the ERS Resource has an obligation during that ERS Standard Contract Term, ERSTESTPF shall be set to 1.0 for that ERS Standard Contract Term.
(8)	If a Governmental Authority issues a written determination that an ERS Resource is in violation of any environmental law that would preclude the ERS Resource’s compliance with its ERS availability or deployment obligations, ERCOT shall treat the ERS Resource as having no availability for the remainder of the Standard Contract Term following the Governmental Authority’s determination and shall treat the Resource as having an event performance factor of zero for any deployments in the remaining portion of the ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT shall also suspend the ERS Resource’s participation in ERS until the ERS Resource’s QSE certifies to ERCOT in writing that the violation has been remedied and that the ERS Resource may lawfully participate in ERS.
(9)	If a QSE is suspended pursuant to paragraph (2) above, each of the QSE’s ERS Resources whose availability or event performance factors was reduced in accordance with paragraphs (3) or (4) above also shall be suspended, and each of the sites in those ERS Resources shall also be suspended.  The duration of the suspension for such ERS Resources and sites shall be one ERS Standard Contract Term.  ERCOT shall reject offers for ERS Resources that are suspended or that contain one or more suspended sites.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, ERCOT may choose not to suspend an ERS Resource if it determines that the reduced availability or event performance factor was attributable to the fault of its QSE or to one or more mitigating factors, such as equipment failures and Force Majeure Events.
(10)	The suspension of an ERS Resource or a QSE representing an ERS Resource shall begin on the day following the expiration of the current or most recent ERS obligation. 
(11)	ERCOT may reinstate an ERS Resource’s eligibility to offer into ERS upon the ERS Resource’s satisfactory completion of the reinstatement process, including a test conducted by ERCOT, as described in Section 8.1.3.2 and in the ERS technical requirements.
8.1.3.3.2	Payment Reduction and Suspension of Qualification of Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Loads and/or their Qualified Scheduling Entities
(1)	If the QSE portfolio-level event performance factor for the QSE’s portfolio of Weather-Sensitive ERS Loads for the ERS Contract Period as calculated in Section 8.1.3.3.4, Performance Criteria for Qualified Scheduling Entities Representing Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Loads, is greater than or equal to 0.90 or if 10% or more sites of an ERS Load were disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline, ERCOT shall not impose a payment reduction for any of the those ERS Loads.  Otherwise, ERCOT shall compute QSE portfolio-level Demand reduction values for each test and event throughout the ERS Contract Period as the greater of zero or the portfolio-level baseline estimate for each interval less the portfolio-level actual Load for that interval.  The relationship of the Demand reduction values for each ERS Load to actual weather shall be modeled and used to derive a time-period specific Demand reduction value that would be realized under normalized peak weather conditions.  If the normalized peak Demand reduction value for each ERS Time Period, summed across all ERS Loads in the portfolio is greater than or equal to 90% of the QSE’s total offered MW capacity in that time period, ERCOT shall not impose a payment reduction for any of the ERS Loads in the portfolio.
(2)	For an ERS deployment event for a Weather-Sensitive ERS Load with three or more full intervals in the Sustained Response Period, if the ERS Load’s EIPF for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period is less than 75% of the average EIPF for the remaining full intervals of the Sustained Response Period, the baseline used to evaluate the ERS Load shall be reduced to the level at which the ERSEPF for that event or test is equal to 0.75 times the ERSEPF determined by using the initial baseline.
(3)	If the provisions of paragraph (1) above are not met, ERCOT shall reduce a QSE’s payment for Weather-Sensitive ERS Load as follows:
(a)	If the maximum number of sites in the ERS Load during the ERS Standard Contract Term is less than 80% of the number of sites projected by the QSE at the time of offer submission, as described in paragraph (15) of Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement, the baseline used to evaluate the Weather-Sensitive ERS Load shall be reduced to the level at which the ERSEPF is equal to the square of the ERSEPF determined by using the initial baseline. 
(b)	For all events occurring in an ERS Time Period, if, for that ERS Time Period the normalized peak Demand reduction value per site within the Weather-Sensitive ERS Load is less than 90% of the average Demand reduction value per site, based on the QSE’s offer for that ERS Time Period, and the ERS Load’s ERSEPF for an event in that ERS Time Period is less than 0.90, the baseline used to evaluate the ERS Load for that event shall be reduced to the level at which the ERS Load’s ERSEPF is equal to the square of the ERSEPF determined by using the initial baseline.
(c)	If either paragraph (3)(a) or (b) above require a payment reduction, but not both, and the normalized peak demand reduction for the resource is greater than or equal to 90% of the QSE’s offered MW capacity, no payment reduction for the event shall be imposed.
(d)	If the provisions of both paragraphs (3)(a) and (b) above require the ERSEPF to be squared, the baseline used to evaluate the ERS Load shall be reduced to the level at which the ERSEPF for the ERS Load is equal to the cube of the ERSEPF determined by using the initial baseline.
(e)	If an ERS Load’s obligation is exhausted during an ERS Contract Period, the provisions of paragraphs (3)(a), (b), and (c) above shall not apply.
(f)	Baseline reductions required pursuant to paragraphs (3)(a), (b), and (c) above shall be applied to the initial baseline calculated by ERCOT.  If a baseline reduction pursuant to paragraph (2) above also is required, that reduction shall be based on the adjusted baseline after applying the reductions provided for in paragraphs (3)(a), (b), and (c) above.
(g)	If the final event performance factor for one or more ERS Loads in a QSE’s portfolio of Weather-Sensitive ERS Loads is reduced pursuant to paragraphs (2) or (3)(a), (b), or (d) above, ERCOT shall re-compute the QSE’s final portfolio-level event performance factor using each ERS Load’s adjusted baselines.
8.1.3.3.3	Performance Criteria for Qualified Scheduling Entities Representing Non-Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Resources
(1)	A QSE’s ERS performance will be evaluated based on its portfolio’s performance for each of the four ERS service types during ERS deployment events and on the overall availability of its portfolio in an ERS Standard Contract Term, as follows:
(a)	Availability:
(i)	ERCOT shall calculate a portfolio-level availability factor for each QSE’s ERS portfolio for each ERS service type for each ERS Time Period in an ERS Contract Period using the methodologies defined in Section 8.1.3.1.3, Availability Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources, except that the availability factor for each ERS Time Period will be allowed to exceed 1.0.  ERCOT shall then calculate a single time- and capacity-weighted availability factor for the QSE portfolio for each ERS service type for the ERS Contract Period using the methodologies defined in Section 8.1.3.1.3.  
(ii)	ERCOT shall then calculate a single time and capacity-weighted availability factor for the QSE portfolio for the ERS Standard Contract Term and the ERS service type, which will be capped at 1.0.  
(A)	For an ERS Standard Contract Term with a single ERS Contract Period, the QSE portfolio-level availability factor for each ERS service type for the ERS Standard Contract Term shall be the portfolio-level availability factor for each ERS service type for the ERS Contract Period.  
(B)	For an ERS Standard Contract Term with multiple ERS Contract Periods, ERCOT shall compute a QSE portfolio-level availability factor for each ERS service type for the ERS Standard Contract Term by averaging the QSE’s availability factors across ERS Contract Periods and ERS Time Periods for each ERS service type, weighted according to time and capacity obligations.  
(iii)	The QSE’s portfolio-level availability factor for each ERS service type for the ERS Standard Contract Term will determine both the availability component of the ERS payment to the QSE and whether the QSE has met its ERS availability requirements.  If the QSE’s portfolio-level availability factor for each ERS service type for the ERS Standard Contract Term equals or exceeds 0.95, the QSE shall be deemed to have met its availability requirements for the ERS Standard Contract Term; otherwise, the QSE shall be deemed to have failed to meet this requirement.  If the QSE’s portfolio-level availability factor for either ERS service type for the ERS Standard Contract Term is less than 1.0, the QSE’s ERS capacity payment shall be reduced according to the formulas in Section 6.6.11.1, Emergency Response Service Capacity Payments.
(b)	Event Performance: 
(i)	QSEs representing ERS Resources must meet performance standards specified in Section 8.1.3.1.4, Event Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources, as applied on a portfolio-level basis.  ERCOT shall determine a QSE’s portfolio-level event performance for each ERS service type by calculating a QSE portfolio-level event performance factor for each ERS deployment event.  For purposes of evaluating ERS Loads, ERCOT shall establish a baseline representing the portfolio’s estimated Load, or, for DRG that has been designated by the QSE to be evaluated by using its native load, calculated 15-minute interval native load data in the absence of the ERS deployment event.  For purposes of evaluating ERS Generators, ERCOT shall compute portfolio-level injection of energy to the ERCOT System.  Using this data, ERCOT shall calculate a QSE portfolio-level event performance factor for each ERS deployment event for each ERS service type based on the weighted average of the event interval performance factors, weighted by the total obligation and IntFrac.  
(ii)	ERCOT shall then calculate an ERSEPFqrd for the ERS Standard Contract Term, which will be capped at 1.0.  For an ERS Standard Contract Term with no ERS deployment events, the ERSEPFqrd for the ERS Standard Contract Term shall be set to 1.0.  
(A)	For an ERS Standard Contract Term with a single ERS deployment event, the ERSEPFqrd for the ERS Standard Contract Term shall be the QSE portfolio-level event performance factor for the event.  
(B)	For an ERS Standard Contract Term with multiple ERS deployment events, ERCOT shall compute the ERSEPFqrd for the ERS Standard Contract Term by averaging the QSE portfolio-level interval performance factors for all of the deployment events for each ERS service type, weighted by the total obligation and IntFrac.  
(iii)	The ERSEPFqrd for an ERS Standard Contract Term will determine both the event performance component of the ERS payment to the QSE and whether the QSE has met its ERS event performance requirements for that ERS service type.  If an ERSEPFqrd for an ERS Standard Contract Term is greater than or equal to 0.95, the QSE will be deemed to have met its event performance requirements for the ERS Standard Contract Term for that ERS service type; otherwise, the QSE shall be deemed to have failed to meet this requirement.  If a QSE’s ERSEPFqrd is less than 1.0 for the Standard Contract Term, the QSE’s ERS capacity payment shall be reduced according to the formulas in Section 6.6.11.1.  For purposes of calculating an ERSEPFqrd, any ERS Resource that was not subject to Dispatch during the event shall be treated as having met its obligation.
(iv)	ERCOT will not include any Resources in the calculation of the ERSEPFqrd if one or more sites of an ERS Resource were disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline.  QSEs must provide verification of such events from the TDSP or MRE.
(c)	Ten-minute Deployment:  Within ten minutes of the deployment time within the ERCOT Extensible Markup Language (XML) deployment message for ERS-10, a QSE shall ensure that each ERS Resource participating in ERS-10 in its portfolio deploys in accordance with its obligations.  For each ERS-10 deployment event, ERCOT shall assess each QSE’s compliance with this requirement by calculating a capacity-weighted QSE portfolio-level interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period, using the methodologies defined in Section 8.1.3.1.4.  
(d)	Thirty-minute Deployment:  Within 30 minutes of the deployment time within the ERCOT XML deployment message for ERS-30, a QSE shall ensure that each ERS Resource participating in its portfolio deploys in accordance with its obligations.  For each ERS-30 deployment event, ERCOT shall assess each QSE’s compliance with this requirement by calculating a capacity-weighted QSE portfolio-level interval performance factor for the first full interval of the Sustained Response Period, using the methodologies defined in Section 8.1.3.1.4.
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
ERSEPFqrd	None	ERS Event Performance Factor per QSE per ERS Standard Contract Term per ERS Service Type—Event performance factor for QSE q in ERS Standard Contract Term r and ERS service type d as calculated pursuant to Section 8.1.3.3.1.
q	None	A QSE.
r	None	ERS Standard Contract Term.
d	None	ERS service type (Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-10 or Non-Weather-Sensitive ERS-30).
(2)	Failure by a QSE portfolio to meet its ERS event performance or availability requirements shall not be cause for revocation of the QSE’s Ancillary Services qualification. 
8.1.3.3.4	Performance Criteria for Qualified Scheduling Entities Representing Weather-Sensitive Emergency Response Service Loads 
(1)	A QSE’s ERS performance will be evaluated based on the performance of its portfolio of Weather-Sensitive ERS Loads during ERS deployment events in an ERS Standard Contract Term as follows:
(a)	ERCOT shall compute the following quantities at the QSE portfolio level for each interval of a deployment: MW obligation, baseline estimate and actual Demand as the sum of the respective quantities across the ERS Loads, or, for DRG that has been designated by the QSE to be evaluated by using its native load, calculated 15-minute interval native load data in the portfolio with obligations for that interval.  In addition, ERCOT shall compute the QSE’s portfolio-level prorated total obligations as the weighted sum of the obligations of the deployed ERS Loads weighted by the ratio the number of sites participating in the ERS Load during the event to the maximum number of sites projected by the QSE at the time of offer submission and the prorated interval fraction value (IntFrac) for each interval of a deployment as the average respectively of the interval fractions for each of the ERS Loads within its portfolio weighted by the ERS Load’s obligation for that interval multiplied by the ratio of the number of sites participating in the ERS Load during the event to the maximum number of sites projected by the QSE at the time of offer submission.
(b)	ERCOT shall compute the QSE’s portfolio-level event interval performance factor for each interval of a deployment as specified in Section 8.1.3.1.4, Event Performance Criteria for Emergency Response Service Resources, using the values computed in paragraph (a) above.
(c)	ERCOT shall compute the QSE’s portfolio-level Weather-Sensitive ERS Load event performance factor (ERSEPF) for each test and event as the weighted average of the event interval performance factors calculated in paragraph (b) above, weighted by the prorated obligation and interval fractions (IntFrac) computed in paragraph (a) above.
(d)	ERCOT shall compute the QSE’s portfolio-level Weather-Sensitive ERS Load event performance factor for the ERS Contract Period as the average of the event interval performance factors for all tests and events during the ERS Contract Period calculated in paragraph (b) above weighted by the prorated obligation and interval fractions computed in paragraph (a) above.
(e)	ERCOT will not include any Weather-Sensitive ERS Loads in the calculation of the ERSEPF if 10% or more sites of an ERS Load were disabled or unverifiable due to events on the TDSP side of the meter affecting the supply, delivery or measurement of electricity either during the event or prior that impacts the creation of a credible baseline.  QSEs must provide verification of such events from the TDSP or MRE.
8.1.3.4	ERCOT Data Collection for Emergency Response Service
(1)	ERCOT will collect all data necessary to analyze offers, Self-Provision offers, and all availability and performance obligations of ERS Resources and their QSEs under the Protocols.  QSEs and ERS Resources they represent are required to provide any data to ERCOT that ERCOT may require, as specified by ERCOT.
8.2	ERCOT Performance Monitoring
(1)	ERCOT shall continually assess its operations performance for the following activities:
(a)	Coordinating the wholesale electric market transactions; 
(b)	System-wide transmission planning; and 
(c)	Network reliability.  
(2)	The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), or a subcommittee designated by TAC, shall review ERCOT’s performance in controlling the ERCOT Control Area according to requirements and criteria set out in the TAC- and ERCOT Board-approved monitoring program.  Assessments and reports include the following ERCOT activities:
(a)	Transmission control:
(i)	Transmission system availability statistics;
(ii)	Outage scheduling statistics for Transmission Facilities Outages (maintenance planning, construction coordination, etc.); and
(iii)	Metrics describing performance of the State Estimator;
(b)	Resource control:
(i)	Outage scheduling statistics for Resource facilities Outages (maintenance planning, construction coordination, etc.);
(ii)	Resource control metrics as defined in the Operating Guides;
(iii)	Metrics describing Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) commitments and deployments; 
(iv)	Metrics describing conflicting instructions to Generation Resources from interval to interval;
[NPRR1246:  Replace item (iv) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(iv)	Metrics describing conflicting instructions to Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) from interval to interval;
(v)	Metrics describing the overall Resource response to frequency deviations in the ERCOT Region; and
(vi)	Voltage and reactive control performance;
(c)	Settlement stability:
(i)	Track number of price changes that occur after a Settlement Statement has posted for an Operating Day; 
(ii)	Track number and types of disputes submitted to ERCOT and their disposition; 
(iii)	Report on compliance with timeliness of response to disputes; 
(iv)	Number of resettlements required due to non-price errors pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (4) of Section 9.2.5, DAM Resettlement Statement, and paragraph (2) of Section 9.5.6, RTM Resettlement Statement;
(v)	Other Settlement metrics; and
(vi)	Availability of Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) consumption data in conformance with Settlement timeline; 
(d)	Performance in implementing network model updates;
(e)	Network Operations Model validation, by comparison to other appropriate models or other methods;
(f)	System and Organization Control (SOC) audit results regarding ERCOT’s market Settlements operations;
(g)	Net Allocation to Load:
(i)	ERCOT shall calculate and report on a quarterly basis all charges allocated to Load for all Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) for each month for the most recent thirteen months expressed in total dollars.  ERCOT will sum all charges allocated to Load for all QSEs, and divide that total by the total Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (AML), showing results in dollars per MWh.  
(ii)	The Load-Allocated CRR Monthly Revenue Zonal Amount (LACMRZAMT), as calculated in paragraph (5) of Section 7.5.7, Method for Distributing CRR Auction Revenues, will be summed by Congestion Management Zone (CMZ) for each month for the most recent 13 months, and divided by the sum of the Real-Time AML by CMZ for each month, showing results in dollars per MWh per CMZ. 
(iii)	ERCOT will calculate the total dollars per MWh by CMZ by summing all charges allocated to Load for all QSEs, excluding LACMRZAMT, and dividing that total by the Real-Time AML; this rate will then be added to item (ii) above to calculate the total dollars per MWh by CMZ.
8.3	TSP Performance Monitoring and Compliance
(1)	ERCOT shall develop a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)- and ERCOT Board-approved Transmission Service Provider (TSP) monitoring program to be included in the Operating Guides for TSPs regarding Real-Time data telemetry performance.
[NPRR857:  Replace Section 8.3 above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
8.3	TSP and DCTO Performance Monitoring and Compliance
(1)	ERCOT shall develop a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)- and ERCOT Board-approved Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) monitoring program to be included in the Operating Guides for TSPs and DCTOs regarding Real-Time data telemetry performance.
8.4	ERCOT Response to Market Non-Performance
(1)	ERCOT may require a Market Participant to develop and implement a corrective action plan to address its failure to meet performance criteria in this Section.  The Market Participant must deliver a copy of this plan to ERCOT and must report to ERCOT periodically on the status of the implementation of the corrective action plan.
(2)	ERCOT may revoke any or all Ancillary Service qualifications of any Generation Resource or Load Resource for continued material non-performance in providing Ancillary Service capacity or energy.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	ERCOT may revoke any or all Ancillary Service qualifications of any Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESRs), or Load Resource for continued material non-performance in providing Ancillary Service capacity or energy.
(3)	ERCOT may suspend any Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resource for continued material non-performance in providing ERS.
8.5	Primary Frequency Response Requirements and Monitoring
8.5.1	Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource, and QSE Participation
8.5.1.1	Governor in Service
(1)	At all times a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), or Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG) is On-Line, its Governor must remain in service and be allowed to respond to all changes in system frequency except during startup, shutdown, or testing.  A Resource Entity may not reduce Primary Frequency Response on an individual Generation Resource, ESR, or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) even during abnormal conditions without ERCOT’s consent (conveyed by way of the Resource Entity’s Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)) unless equipment damage is imminent.  All Generation Resources, ESRs, SOTGs, and SOTSGs that have capacity available to either increase output or decrease output in Real-Time must provide Primary Frequency Response, which may make use of that available capacity.  Only Generation Resources or ESRs providing Regulation Up (Reg-Up), Regulation Down (Reg-Down), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), Responsive Reserve (RRS), or Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) from On-Line Resources, as specified in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards, shall be required to reserve capacity that may also be used to provide Primary Frequency Response.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	At all times a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG), or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS) is On-Line, its Governor must remain in service and be allowed to respond to all changes in system frequency except during startup, shutdown, or testing.  A Resource Entity may not reduce Primary Frequency Response on an individual Generation Resource, ESR, Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or SOTESS even during abnormal conditions without ERCOT’s consent (conveyed by way of the Resource Entity’s Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)) unless equipment damage is imminent.  All Generation Resources, ESRs, SOTGs, SOTSGs, and SOTESSs that have capacity available to either increase output or decrease output in Real-Time must provide Primary Frequency Response, which may make use of that available capacity.  Only Generation Resources or ESRs providing Responsive Reserve (RRS), Regulation Up (Reg-Up), Regulation Down (Reg-Down), ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), or Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) from On-Line Resources, as specified in Section 8.1.1, QSE Ancillary Service Performance Standards, shall be required to reserve capacity that may also be used to provide Primary Frequency Response.

[NPRR863, NPRR989, NPRR995, and NPRR1011:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (2) below upon system implementation for NPRR863, NPRR989, and NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1011:]
(2)	Generation Resources and ESRs that do not have an RRS or Regulation Service Ancillary Service award shall set their Governor Dead-Band no greater than ±0.036 Hz from nominal frequency of 60 Hz.  A Generation Resource or ESR that widens its Governor Dead-Band greater than what is prescribed in Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.2.7, Turbine Speed Governors, must update its Resource Registration data with the new dead-band value.

[NPRR995:  Insert paragraph (3) below upon system implementation:]
(3)	SOTGs, SOTSGs, and SOTESSs shall set their Governor Dead-Band no greater than ±0.036 Hz from nominal frequency of 60 Hz.
8.5.1.2	Reporting
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall conduct applicable Governor tests on each of its Generation Resources and ESRs as specified in the Operating Guides.  The Resource Entity shall provide test results and other relevant information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall make these results available to the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs).
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	Each Resource Entity shall conduct applicable Governor tests on each of its Generation Resources and ESRs as specified in the Operating Guides.  The Resource Entity shall provide test results and other relevant information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall make these results available to the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and upon request on the ERCOT website.
(2)	Generation Resource and ESR Governor modeling information required in the ERCOT planning criteria must be determined from actual Generation Resource or ESR testing described in the Operating Guides.  Within 30 days of ERCOT’s request, the results of the latest test performed must be supplied to ERCOT and the connected TSP.
(3)	Each QSE shall inform ERCOT as soon as practical when notified by its On-Line Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, or SOTSG of the Governor being out-of-service.  The QSE shall supply related logs to ERCOT upon request.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	Each QSE shall inform ERCOT as soon as practical when notified by its On-Line Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, SOTSG, or SOTESS of the Governor being out-of-service.  The QSE shall supply related logs to ERCOT upon request.
(4)	If a Generation Resource or ESR trips Off-Line during a disturbance, as defined by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), while providing Primary Frequency Response, the QSE shall report the cause of the failure to ERCOT as soon as the cause has been identified.
8.5.1.3 	Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) Primary Frequency Response
(1)	Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) with Standard Generation Interconnection Agreements (SGIAs) signed after January 1, 2010 shall provide Primary Frequency Response to frequency deviations from 60 Hz.  The WGR automatic control system design shall have an adjustable dead band that can be set as specified in the Operating Guides.  The Primary Frequency Response shall be specified in the Operating Guides.  For WGRs with SGIAs executed on or prior to January 1, 2010, those not already equipped with Primary Frequency Response shall by December 1, 2011 acquire that capability.  Those WGRs that cannot technically be retrofitted with Primary Frequency Response capability shall submit an attestation to ERCOT by June 1, 2010 explaining the technical infeasibility.  At ERCOT’s sole discretion, those WGRs for which Primary Frequency Response is technically infeasible may be granted a permanent exemption from the requirement.  ERCOT shall make a determination within 180 days of receipt of the attestation.  If ERCOT does not grant an exemption, the WGR shall acquire the capability to provide Primary Frequency Response within 24 months of being notified of that determination.  If ERCOT grants the exemption, then ERCOT may require the WGR to install alternate measures, such as over-frequency relays, that are technically feasible and would approximate Primary Frequency Response to events above 60.1 Hz.
8.5.2	Primary Frequency Response Measurements
(1)	ERCOT, with the assistance of the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee, shall analyze the performance of Generation Resources, ESRs, SOTGs, SOTSGs, Resources capable of Fast Frequency Response (FFR), and Controllable Load Resources for all Frequency Measurable Events (FMEs) in accordance with the Operating Guides.  In support of this analysis, ERCOT shall post the following:
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT, with the assistance of the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee, shall analyze the performance of Generation Resources, ESRs, SOTGs, SOTSGs, SOTESSs, Resources capable of Fast Frequency Response (FFR), and Controllable Load Resources for all Frequency Measurable Events (FMEs) in accordance with the Operating Guides.  In support of this analysis, ERCOT shall post the following:
(a)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the occurrence of an FME within 14 calendar days of occurrence.
(b)	ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area for Performance, Disturbance, Compliance Working Group (PDCWG) analysis, the Primary Frequency Response Unit Performance for each Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, SOTSG, and Controllable Load Resource that is measured in the FME.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for Performance, Disturbance, Compliance Working Group (PDCWG) analysis, the Primary Frequency Response Unit Performance for each Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, SOTSG, SOTESS, and Controllable Load Resource that is measured in the FME.
(c)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website a monthly report that displays the frequency response of the ERCOT System for a rolling average of the last six FMEs.
(d)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website an annual report that displays the minimum frequency response computation methodology of the ERCOT System.
(e)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area the Primary Frequency Response 12-month rolling average for each Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, SOTSG, Resource capable of FFR, and Controllable Load Resource.  
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(e)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area the Primary Frequency Response 12-month rolling average for each Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, SOTSG, SOTESS, Resource capable of FFR, and Controllable Load Resource.
8.5.2.1	ERCOT Required Primary Frequency Response
(1)	All Generation Resources, ESRs, SOTGs, SOTSGs, and Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) shall provide Primary Frequency Response in accordance with the requirements established in the Operating Guides.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1244:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	All Generation Resources, ESRs, Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) that are capable of providing Primary Frequency Response, SOTGs, SOTSGs, and SOTESSs shall provide Primary Frequency Response in accordance with the requirements established in the Operating Guides.  
(2)	ERCOT shall evaluate, with the assistance of the appropriate TAC subcommittee, Primary Frequency Response during FMEs.  The actual Generation Resource or ESR response must be compiled to determine if adequate Primary Frequency Response was provided.
(3)	ERCOT and the appropriate TAC subcommittee shall review each FME, verifying the accuracy of data.  Data that is in question may be requested from the QSE for comparison or individual Generation Resource or ESR data may be retrieved from ERCOT’s database.
[NPRR963:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT and the appropriate TAC subcommittee shall review each FME, verifying the accuracy of data.  Data that is in question may be requested from the QSE for comparison or individual Resource data may be retrieved from ERCOT’s database.
8.5.2.2	ERCOT Data Collection
(1)	ERCOT shall collect all data necessary to analyze each FME.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 9:  Settlement and Billing

April 1, 2025



 
9	SETTLEMENT AND BILLING	9-1
9.1	General	9-1
9.1.1	Settlement and Billing Process Overview	9-1
9.1.2	Settlement Calendar	9-1
9.1.3	Settlement Statement and Invoice Access	9-2
9.1.4	Settlement Statement and Invoice Timing	9-3
9.1.5	Settlement Payment Convention	9-3
9.2	Settlement Statements for the Day-Ahead Market	9-3
9.2.1	Settlement Statement Process for the DAM	9-3
9.2.2	 Settlement Statements for the DAM	9-3
9.2.3	DAM Settlement Charge Types	9-4
9.2.4	DAM Statement	9-5
9.2.5	DAM Resettlement Statement	9-5
9.2.6	Notice of Resettlement for the DAM	9-6
9.2.7	Confirmation of Statement for the DAM	9-6
9.2.8	Validation of the Settlement Statement for the DAM	9-7
9.2.9	Suspension of Issuing Settlement Statements for the DAM	9-7
9.3	[RESERVED]	9-7
9.4	[RESERVED]	9-7
9.5	Settlement Statements for Real-Time Market	9-7
9.5.1	Settlement Statement Process for the Real-Time Market	9-7
9.5.2	Settlement Statements for the RTM	9-7
9.5.3	Real-Time Market Settlement Charge Types	9-9
9.5.4	RTM Initial Statement	9-15
9.5.5	RTM Final Statement	9-15
9.5.6	RTM Resettlement Statement	9-16
9.5.7	Notice of Resettlement for the Real-Time Market	9-17
9.5.8	RTM True-Up Statement	9-17
9.5.9	Notice of True-Up Settlement Timeline Changes for the Real-Time Market	9-18
9.5.10	Confirmation for the Real-Time Market	9-18
9.5.11	Validation of the True-Up Statement for the Real-Time Market	9-18
9.5.12	Suspension of Issuing Settlement Statements for the Real-Time Market	9-18
9.6	Settlement Invoices for the Day-Ahead Market and Real-Time Market	9-19
9.7	Payment Process for the Settlement Invoices	9-20
9.7.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for the Settlement Invoices	9-20
9.7.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for the Settlement Invoices	9-20
9.7.3	Enforcing the Financial Security of a Short-Paying Invoice Recipient	9-20
9.8	CRR Auction Award Invoices	9-21
9.9	Payment Process for CRR Auction Invoices	9-22
9.9.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for the CRR Auction	9-22
9.9.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for the CRR Auction	9-22
9.9.3	Enforcing the Security of a Short-Paying CRR Auction Invoice Recipient	9-23
9.10	CRR Auction Revenue Distribution Invoices	9-23
9.11	Payment Process for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution	9-24
9.11.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution	9-24
9.11.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution	9-24
9.11.3	Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution	9-25
9.11.4	Enforcing the Security of a Short-Paying CARD Invoice Recipient	9-25
9.12	CRR Balancing Account Invoices	9-26
9.13	Payment Process for the CRR Balancing Account	9-27
9.13.1	Payment Process for the Initial CRR Balancing Account	9-27
9.13.2 	Payment Process for Resettlement of the CRR Balancing Account	9-27
9.13.2.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Resettlement of the CRR Balancing Account	9-27
9.13.2.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for Resettlement of the CRR Balancing Account	9-28
9.13.2.3	Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients for Resettlement of CRR Balancing Account	9-28
9.14	Settlement and Billing Dispute Process	9-29
9.14.1	Data Review, Validation, Confirmation, and Dispute of Settlement Statements	9-29
9.14.2	Notice of Dispute	9-29
9.14.3	Contents of Notice	9-31
9.14.4	 ERCOT Processing of Disputes	9-32
9.14.4.1	Status of Dispute	9-33
9.14.4.1.1	Not Started	9-33
9.14.4.1.2	Open	9-33
9.14.4.1.3	Closed	9-33
9.14.4.1.4	Rejected	9-34
9.14.4.1.5	Withdrawn	9-34
9.14.4.1.6	ADR	9-34
9.14.4.2	Resolution of Dispute	9-35
9.14.4.2.1	Denied	9-35
9.14.4.2.2	Granted	9-35
9.14.4.2.3	Granted with Exceptions	9-36
9.14.5	Settlement of Emergency Response Service	9-36
9.14.6	Disputes for Operations Decisions	9-37
9.14.7	Disputes for RUC Make-Whole Payment for Fuel Costs	9-37
9.14.8	Disputes for Settlement Application of Integrated Telemetry for Split Generation Resources	9-39
9.14.9	Incremental Fuel Costs for Switchable Generation Make-Whole Payment Disputes	9-40
9.14.10	Settlement for Market Participants Impacted by Omitted Procedures or Manual Actions to Resolve the DAM	9-41
9.15	Settlement Charges	9-47
9.15.1	Charge Type Matrix	9-47
9.16	ERCOT System Administration and User Fees	9-47
9.16.1	ERCOT System Administration Fee	9-47
9.16.2	User Fees	9-48
9.17	Transmission Billing Determinant Calculation	9-48
9.17.1	Billing Determinant Data Elements	9-49
9.17.2	Direct Current Tie Schedule Information	9-50
9.18	Profile Development Cost Recovery Fee for Non-ERCOT Sponsored Load Profile Segment	9-51
9.19	Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients	9-53
9.19.1	Default Uplift Invoices	9-55
9.19.2	Payment Process for Default Uplift Invoices	9-65
9.19.2.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Default Uplift	9-65
9.19.2.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for Default Uplift	9-65
9.19.3	Default Uplift Supporting Data Reporting	9-66
9.19.4	Exemption for Central Counter-Party Clearinghouses Regulated as Derivatives Clearing Organizations	9-66

 
9	SETTLEMENT AND BILLING 
9.1	General
9.1.1	Settlement and Billing Process Overview
(1)	Settlement is the process used to resolve financial obligations between a Market Participant and ERCOT, including administrative and miscellaneous charges.  Settlement also provides Transmission Billing Determinants to Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Distribution Service Providers (DSPs).  The Settlement and billing timeline and process for the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) is separate from the Settlement and billing timeline and process for  the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) process, the Adjustment Period, and Real-Time operations (after this referred to together in this Section as the Real-Time Market (RTM)). 
9.1.2	Settlement Calendar 
(1)	ERCOT shall post and maintain on the ERCOT website a Settlement Calendar to denote, for each Operating Day, when:
(a)	Each scheduled Settlement Statement for the DAM will be issued under Section 9.2.4, DAM Statement, and Section 9.2.5, DAM Resettlement Statement;  
(b)	Each scheduled Settlement Statement for the RTM will be issued under Section 9.5.4, RTM Initial Statement, Section 9.5.5, RTM Final Statement, Section 9.5.6, RTM Resettlement Statement, and Section 9.5.8, RTM True-Up Statement; 
(c)	Each Settlement Invoice will be issued under Section 9.6, Settlement Invoices for the Day-Ahead Market and Real-Time Market; 
(d)	Payments for the Settlement Invoice are due under Section 9.7, Payment Process for the Settlement Invoices; 
(e)	Each Default Uplift Invoice will be issued under Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients;
(f)	Payments for Default Uplift Invoices are due under Section 9.19.1, Default Uplift Invoices;
(g)	Each Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction Invoice will be issued under Section 9.8, CRR Auction Award Invoices; 
(h)	Payments for CRR Auction Invoices are due under Section 9.9, Payment Process for CRR Auction Invoices;
(i)	Each CRR Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) Invoice will be issued under Section 9.10, CRR Auction Revenue Distribution Invoices;
(j)	Payments for CARD Invoices are due under Section 9.11, Payment Process for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution;
(k)	Each CRR Balancing Account (CRRBA) Invoice will be issued under Section 9.12, CRR Balancing Account Invoices; 
(l)	Payments for CRRBA Invoices are due under Section 9.13, Payment Process for the CRR Balancing Account;
(m)	Securitization Default Charge Invoices will be issued in accordance with Section 26.3, Securitization Default Charge Invoices; 
(n)	Payments for Securitization Default Charge Invoices are due under Section 26.3.1, Payment Process for Securitization Default Charge Invoices;
(o)	Each Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice will be issued under Section 27.4.1, Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices; 
(p)	Payments for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices are due under Section 27.4.3, Payment Process for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices; 
(q)	Each Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice will be issued under Section 27.4.2, Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices; 
(r)	Payments for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices are due under Section 27.4.5, Payment Process for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices; and
(s)	Settlement and billing disputes for each scheduled Settlement Statement of an Operating Day and Settlement Invoice must be submitted under Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify Market Participants if any of the aforementioned data will not be available on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.
9.1.3	Settlement Statement and Invoice Access 
(1)	A Statement or Invoice Recipient may access its Settlement Statements or Invoices electronically, using either of the following methods:
(a)	Secured entry on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area;
(b)	eXtensible Markup Language (XML) access to the MIS Certified Area.
9.1.4	Settlement Statement and Invoice Timing
(1)	Unless expressly stated otherwise, the publication of each Settlement Statement and Invoice can occur as late as 2400 on its scheduled publication date. 
9.1.5	Settlement Payment Convention
(1)	A Settlement Statement or Invoice containing a negative amount represents a payment due by ERCOT to the Market Participant that received the Statement or Invoice.  A Settlement Statement or Invoice containing a positive amount represents a payment due to ERCOT by the Market Participant that received the Statement or Invoice.
9.2	Settlement Statements for the Day-Ahead Market
9.2.1	Settlement Statement Process for the DAM
(1)	ERCOT shall produce daily Settlement Statements for the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), as defined in Section 9.2.2, Settlement Statements for the DAM, that show a breakdown of Charge Types incurred in the DAM, including any administrative and miscellaneous charges applicable to the DAM.  “Charge Types” are the various categories of specific charges referenced in Section 9.15.1, Charge Type Matrix.
9.2.2	 Settlement Statements for the DAM
(1)	ERCOT shall make each Settlement Statement for a DAM available on the date specified on the Settlement Calendar for that DAM by posting it on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area for the applicable Market Participant to which the Settlement Statement is addressed (Statement Recipient).
(2)	A Settlement Statement for the DAM can be: 
(a)	A “DAM Statement,” which is the Settlement Statement issued for a particular DAM;
(b)	A “DAM Resettlement Statement,” which corrects a DAM Statement.
(3)	The Statement Recipient is responsible for accessing the statement from the MIS Certified Area.
(4)	ERCOT shall create a DAM Statement for each DAM.  
(5)	ERCOT may create a DAM Resettlement Statement for the DAM, depending on the criteria set forth in Section 9.2.5, DAM Resettlement Statement.
(6)	Each Settlement Statement for the DAM must denote:
(a)	The applicable Operating Day;
(b)	The Statement Recipient’s name;
(c)	The ERCOT identifier (settlement identification number issued by ERCOT);
(d)	Status of the statement (DAM Statement  or DAM Resettlement Statement);
(e)	Statement version number;
(f)	Unique statement identification code; and
(g)	Charge Types settled.
(7)	Settlement Statements for the DAM must break fees down by Charge Types into the appropriate one-hour Settlement Interval for that type.  
(8)	The Settlement Statement for the DAM must have a summary page of the corresponding detailed documentation.
9.2.3	DAM Settlement Charge Types
(1)	ERCOT shall provide, on each Settlement Statement, the dollar amount for each DAM Settlement charge and payment.  The DAM settlement “Charge Types” are:
(a)	Section 4.6.2.1, Day-Ahead Energy Payment;
(b)	Section 4.6.2.2, Day-Ahead Energy Charge;
(c)	Section 4.6.2.3.1, Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment;
(d)	Section 4.6.2.3.2, Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge;
(e)	Section 4.6.3, Settlement for PTP Obligations Bought in DAM;
(f)	Section 4.6.4.1.1, Regulation Up Service Payment;
(g)	Section 4.6.4.1.2, Regulation Down Service Payment;
(h)	Section 4.6.4.1.3, Responsive Reserve Payment;
(i)	Section 4.6.4.1.4, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Payment;
(j)	Section 4.6.4.1.5, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Payment;
(k)	Section 4.6.4.2.1, Regulation Up Service Charge;
(l)	Section 4.6.4.2.2, Regulation Down Service Charge;
(m)	Section 4.6.4.2.3, Responsive Reserve Charge;
(n)	Section 4.6.4.2.4, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Charge;
(o)	Section 4.6.4.2.5, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Charge;
(p)	Section 7.9.1.1, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in DAM;
(q)	Section 7.9.1.2, Payments for PTP Options Settled in DAM;
(r)	Section 7.9.1.4, Payments for FGRs Settled in DAM;
(s)	Section 7.9.1.5, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund Settled in DAM;
(t)	Section 7.9.1.6, Payments for PTP Options with Refund Settled in DAM; and
(u)	Paragraph (2) of Section 7.9.3.3, Shortfall Charges to CRR Owners.
9.2.4	DAM Statement
(1)	ERCOT shall produce a DAM Statement for each Statement Recipient for the given DAM on the second Business Day after the Operating Day.
9.2.5	DAM Resettlement Statement
(1)	ERCOT shall issue DAM Resettlement Statements for a given Operating Day if the ERCOT Board finds that the DAM Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs), Market Clearing Prices for Capacity (MCPCs), or Settlement Point Prices are significantly affected by a software or other error under Section 4.5.3, Communicating DAM Results.  ERCOT shall also produce DAM Resettlement Statements required by resolution of Settlement and billing disputes and the correction of errors other than price errors pursuant to this Section.  In addition, the ERCOT Board may, in its discretion, direct ERCOT to run a resettlement of any Operating Day, at any time, to address unusual circumstances.
(2)	ERCOT shall issue a DAM Resettlement Statement for a given Operating Day due to errors other than errors in prices when:
(a)	The total of all errors other than price errors results in an absolute value impact greater than 2% of the total DAM Statement amount for any single Statement Recipient for the Operating Day;
(b)	The impact to the Statement Recipient is greater than $200.00; and
(c)	The error is discovered, and a Market Notice of the error is provided to Market Participants, within one year of the Operating Day at issue.
(3)	ERCOT shall issue a DAM Resettlement Statement for an Operating Day if an error in the DAM Settlement, which does not otherwise meet the Protocol requirements for resettlement as specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) above, will prevent ERCOT from achieving revenue neutrality.
(4) 	No later than 150 days after each affected Operating Day, ERCOT shall resettle Operating Days with errors, other than errors in prices, with cumulative impacts that do not meet the threshold described in paragraph (2) above if the cumulative effect of errors to a single Statement Recipient in the 150 day window results in an absolute value impact greater than 1% of the total DAM Statement amounts for any Statement Recipient for the affected Operating Days, if this impact to the Statement Recipient is greater than $5,000.00.
(5)	A DAM Resettlement Statement must reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous Settlement Statement for the given DAM.
(6)	ERCOT may issue DAM Resettlement Statements after the timeline referenced in paragraph (2) above if directed by the ERCOT Board, the result of a resolution of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedure, or under the procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  
(7)	If ERCOT is required to issue a Resettlement Statement per this Section, but resettlement is not practicable due to system limitations, ERCOT shall make the adjustments through a separate Invoice that is produced outside of normal Settlement Invoices.  The appropriate payments and charges, along with Settlement-quality information, shall be supplied to all impacted Market Participants.
9.2.6	Notice of Resettlement for the DAM
(1)	While maintaining confidentiality of all Market Participants, ERCOT shall send a Market Notice in conjunction with the resettlement, indicating the resettlement of the DAM for a specific Operating Day and the date of issuance of the Resettlement Statements for the DAM.  ERCOT shall include the following information in the notice of resettlement:
(a)	Detailed description of reason(s) for resettlement;
(b)	For the applicable Operating Day;
(c)	Affected Charge Types; and
(d)	Total resettled amount, by Charge Type.
9.2.7	Confirmation of Statement for the DAM
(1)	It is the responsibility of each Statement Recipient to notify ERCOT if a Settlement Statement for the DAM is not available on the MIS Certified Area on the date specified for posting of that Settlement Statement in the Settlement Calendar.  Each Settlement Statement for the DAM is deemed to have been available on the posting date specified on the Settlement Calendar, unless ERCOT is notified to the contrary.  If ERCOT receives notice that a Settlement Statement is not available, ERCOT shall make reasonable attempts to provide the Settlement Statement to the Statement Recipient, and ERCOT shall modify the Settlement and billing timeline accordingly for that Settlement Statement.  
9.2.8	Validation of the Settlement Statement for the DAM
(1)	The Statement Recipient is deemed to have validated each Settlement Statement for the DAM unless it has raised a Settlement and billing dispute under Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process. 
9.2.9	Suspension of Issuing Settlement Statements for the DAM
(1)	The ERCOT Board may direct ERCOT to suspend the issuance of any Settlement Statement for the DAM to address unusual circumstances.  Any proposal to suspend settlements must be presented to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for review and comment, in a reasonable manner under the circumstances, prior to such suspension.
9.3	[RESERVED]
9.4	[RESERVED]
9.5	Settlement Statements for Real-Time Market
9.5.1	Settlement Statement Process for the Real-Time Market 
(1)	ERCOT shall produce daily Settlement Statements for the Real-Time Market (RTM), as defined in Section 9.5.2, Settlement Statements for the RTM, that show a breakdown of Charge Types incurred in the RTM, including any administrative and miscellaneous charges applicable to the RTM.
9.5.2	Settlement Statements for the RTM
(1)	ERCOT shall make each Settlement Statement for the RTM for an Operating Day available on the date specified on the Settlement Calendar for that Operating Day by posting it to the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area for the applicable Statement Recipient. 
(2)	A Settlement Statement for the RTM can be: 
(a)	An “RTM Initial Statement,” which is the first iteration of a Settlement Statement issued for a particular Operating Day;
(b)	An “RTM Final Statement,” which is the statement issued at the end of the 55th day following the Operating Day; 
(c)	An “RTM Resettlement Statement,” which is the statement using corrected Settlement data due to resolution of disputes and correction of data errors; or
(d)	An “RTM True-Up Statement,” which is a statement issued at the end of the 180th day after the Operating Day.
(3)	The Statement Recipient is responsible for accessing the Statement from the MIS Certified Area.
(4)	To issue an RTM Settlement Statement, ERCOT may use estimated, disputed, or calculated meter data.
(5)	ERCOT shall create an RTM Initial Statement, RTM Final Statement, and RTM True-Up Statement for each Operating Day.
(6)	ERCOT may create an RTM Resettlement Statement for any Operating Day, depending on the criteria set forth in Section 9.5.6, RTM Resettlement Statement.  When actual validated data is available and all of the Settlement and billing disputes raised by Statement Recipients in accordance with Section 9.14.4, ERCOT Processing of Disputes, during the validation process have been resolved, ERCOT shall recalculate the amounts payable and receivable by the affected RTM Statement Recipients, as described in Section 9.5.6.
(7)	Each RTM Settlement Statement must denote:
(a)	Operating Day;
(b)	The Statement Recipient’s name;
(c)	The ERCOT identifier (settlement identification number issued by ERCOT);
(d)	Status of the statement (Initial, Final, Resettlement, or True-Up);
(e)	Statement version number;
(f)	Unique statement identification code; and
(g)	Charge Types settled.
(8)	A Settlement Statement for the RTM must break the fees down by Charge Type into the appropriate 15-minute or one-hour Settlement Interval for that type. 
(9)	An RTM Settlement Statement must have a summary page of the corresponding detailed documentation.
9.5.3	Real-Time Market Settlement Charge Types
(1)	ERCOT shall provide, on each RTM Settlement Statement, the dollar amount for each RTM Settlement charge and payment.  The RTM Settlement “Charge Types” are:
(a)	Section 5.7.1, RUC Make-Whole Payment;
(b)	Section 5.7.2, RUC Clawback Charge;
(c)	Section 5.7.3, Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource;
(d)	Section 5.7.4.1, RUC Capacity-Short Charge;
(e)	Section 5.7.4.2, RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge;
(f)	Section 5.7.5, RUC Clawback Payment;
(g)	Section 5.7.6, RUC Decommitment Charge;
(h)	Section 6.6.3.1, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Resource Node; 
(i)	Section 6.6.3.2, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Load Zone;
(j)	Section 6.6.3.3, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Hub;
(k)	Section 6.6.3.4, Real-Time Energy Payment for DC Tie Import;
(l)	Section 6.6.3.5, Real-Time Payment for a Block Load Transfer Point;
(m)	Section 6.6.3.6, Real-Time High Dispatch Limit Override Energy Payment;
(n)	Section 6.6.3.7, Real-Time High Dispatch Limit Override Energy Charge;
(o)	Section 6.6.3.8, Real-Time Payment or Charge for Energy from a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) or a Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG);
(p)	Section 6.6.4, Real-Time Congestion Payment or Charge for Self-Schedules;
(q)	Section 6.6.5.1.1.1, Base Point Deviation Charge for Over Generation; 
(r)	Section 6.6.5.1.1.2, Base Point Deviation Charge for Under Generation; 
(s)	Section 6.6.5.2, IRR Generation Resource Base Point Deviation Charge; 
(t)	Section 6.6.5.4, Base Point Deviation Payment;
(u)	Section 6.6.6.1, RMR Standby Payment;
(v)	Section 6.6.6.2, RMR Payment for Energy;
(w)	Section 6.6.6.3, RMR Adjustment Charge;
(x)	Section 6.6.6.4, RMR Charge for Unexcused Misconduct;
(y)	Section 6.6.6.5, RMR Service Charge;
(z)	Section 6.6.6.6, Method for Reconciling RMR Actual Eligible Costs, RMR and MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures, and Miscellaneous RMR Incurred Expenses;
(aa)	Paragraph (2) of Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments;
(bb)	Paragraph (4) of Section 6.6.7.1;
(cc)	Section 6.6.7.2, Voltage Support Charge;
(dd)	Section 6.6.8.1, Black Start Hourly Standby Fee Payment;
(ee)	Section 6.6.8.2, Black Start Capacity Charge;
(ff)	Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Power Increase Directed by ERCOT;
(gg)	Section 6.6.9.2, Charge for Emergency Power Increases;
(hh)	Section 6.6.10, Real-Time Revenue Neutrality Allocation;
(ii)	Section 6.6.14.2, Firm Fuel Supply Service Hourly Standby Fee Payment and Fuel Replacement Cost Recovery;
(jj)	Section 6.6.14.3, Firm Fuel Supply Service Capacity Charge;
(kk)	Paragraph (1)(a) of Section 6.7.1, Payments for Ancillary Service Capacity Sold in a Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM) or Reconfiguration Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (RSASM);
(ll)	Paragraph (1)(b) of Section 6.7.1;
(mm)	Paragraph (1)(c) of Section 6.7.1;
(nn)	Paragraph (1)(d) of Section 6.7.1; 
(oo)	Paragraph (1)(e) of Section 6.7.1; 
(pp)	Paragraph (1)(a) of Section 6.7.2, Payments for Ancillary Service Capacity Assigned in Real-Time Operations;
(qq)	Paragraph (1)(b) of Section 6.7.2;
(rr)	Paragraph (1)(c) of Section 6.7.2; 
(ss)	Paragraph (1)(a) of Section 6.7.2.1, Charges for Infeasible Ancillary Service Capacity Due to Transmission Constraints;
(tt)	Paragraph (1)(b) of Section 6.7.2.1;
(uu)	Paragraph (1)(c) of Section 6.7.2.1;
(vv)	Paragraph (1)(d) of Section 6.7.2.1;
(ww)	Paragraph (1)(e) of Section 6.7.2.1;
(xx)	Paragraph (1)(a) of Section 6.7.3, Charges for Ancillary Service Capacity Replaced Due to Failure to Provide;
(yy)	Paragraph (1)(b) of Section 6.7.3;
(zz)	Paragraph (1)(c) of Section 6.7.3;
(aaa)	Paragraph (1)(d) of Section 6.7.3;
(bbb)	Paragraph (1)(e) of Section 6.7.3;
(ccc)	Paragraph (2) of Section 6.7.4, Adjustments to Cost Allocations for Ancillary Services Procurement;
(ddd)	Paragraph (3) of Section 6.7.4;
(eee)	Paragraph (4) of Section 6.7.4;
(fff)	Paragraph (5) of Section 6.7.4; 
(ggg)	Paragraph (6) of Section 6.7.4;
(hhh)	Paragraph (7) of Section 6.7.5, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Payment or Charge (Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Amount);
(iii)	Paragraph (7) of Section 6.7.5, (Real-Time Reliability Deployment Ancillary Service Imbalance Amount);
(jjj)	Paragraph (8) of Section 6.7.5, (Real-Time RUC Ancillary Service Reserve Amount); 
(kkk)	Paragraph (8) of Section 6.7.5, (Real-Time Reliability Deployment RUC Ancillary Service Reserve Amount); 
(lll)	Section 6.7.6, Real-Time Ancillary Service Imbalance Revenue Neutrality Allocation (Load-Allocated Ancillary Service Imbalance Revenue Neutrality Amount);
(mmm)	Section 6.7.6, (Load-Allocated Reliability Deployment Ancillary Service Imbalance Revenue Neutrality Amount);
(nnn)	Section 7.9.2.1, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in Real-Time; and
(ooo)	Section 9.16.1, ERCOT System Administration Fee.
[NPRR841, NPRR885, NPRR963, NPRR995, NPRR1012, NPRR1014, and NPRR1216:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR841, NPRR885, NPRR963, NPRR995, NPRR1014, or NPRR1216 (Phase 2); or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1012:]
(1)	ERCOT shall provide, on each RTM Settlement Statement, the dollar amount for each RTM Settlement charge and payment.  The RTM Settlement “Charge Types” are:
(a)	Section 5.7.1, RUC Make-Whole Payment;
(b)	Section 5.7.2, RUC Clawback Charge;
(c)	Section 5.7.3, Payment When ERCOT Decommits a QSE-Committed Resource;
(d)	Section 5.7.4.1, RUC Capacity-Short Charge;
(e)	Section 5.7.4.2, RUC Make-Whole Uplift Charge;
(f)	Section 5.7.5, RUC Clawback Payment;
(g)	Section 5.7.6, RUC Decommitment Charge;
(h)	Section 6.6.3.1, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Resource Node; 
(i)	Section 6.6.3.2, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Load Zone;
(j)	Section 6.6.3.3, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Hub;
(k)	Section 6.6.3.4, Real-Time Energy Payment for DC Tie Import;
(l)	Section 6.6.3.5, Real-Time Payment for a Block Load Transfer Point;
(m)	Section 6.6.3.6, Real-Time High Dispatch Limit Override Energy Payment;
(n)	Section 6.6.3.7, Real-Time High Dispatch Limit Override Energy Charge;
(o)	Section 6.6.3.8, Real-Time Payment or Charge for Energy from a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG), Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS), or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS); 
(p)	Section 6.6.4, Real-Time Congestion Payment or Charge for Self-Schedules;
(q)	Section 6.6.5.2, Set Point Deviation Charge for Over Generation; 
(r)	Section 6.6.5.2.1, Set Point Deviation Charge for Under Generation; 
(s)	Section 6.6.5.3, Controllable Load Resource Set Point Deviation Charge for Over Consumption; 
(t)	Section 6.6.5.3.1, Controllable Load Resource Set Point Deviation Charge for Under Consumption;
(u)	Section 6.6.5.4, IRR Generation Resource Set Point Deviation Charge; 
(v)	Section 6.6.5.4, Set Point Deviation Payment;
(w)	Section 6.6.5.5, Energy Storage Resource Set Point Deviation Charge for Over Performance; 
(x)	Section 6.6.5.5.1, Energy Storage Resource Set Point Deviation Charge for Under Performance; 
(y)	Section 6.6.6.1, RMR Standby Payment;
(z)	Section 6.6.6.2, RMR Payment for Energy;
(aa)	Section 6.6.6.3, RMR Adjustment Charge;
(bb)	Section 6.6.6.4, RMR Charge for Unexcused Misconduct;
(cc)	Section 6.6.6.5, RMR Service Charge;
(dd)	Section 6.6.6.6, Method for Reconciling RMR Actual Eligible Costs, RMR and MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures, and Miscellaneous RMR Incurred Expenses;
(ee)	Section 6.6.6.7, MRA Standby Payment;
(ff)	Section 6.6.6.8, MRA Contributed Capital Expenditures Payment;
(gg)	Section 6.6.6.9, MRA Payment for Deployment Event;
(hh)	Section 6.6.6.10, MRA Variable Payment for Deployment; 
(ii)	Section 6.6.6.11, MRA Charge for Unexcused Misconduct;
(jj)	Section 6.6.6.12, MRA Service Charge;
(kk)	Paragraph (3) of Section 6.6.7.1, Voltage Support Service Payments;
(ll)	Paragraph (5) of Section 6.6.7.1;
(mm)	Section 6.6.7.2, Voltage Support Charge;
(nn)	Section 6.6.8.1, Black Start Hourly Standby Fee Payment;
(oo)	Section 6.6.8.2, Black Start Capacity Charge;
(pp)	Section 6.6.9.1, Payment for Emergency Operations Settlement;
(qq)	Section 6.6.9.2, Charge for Emergency Operations Settlement;
(rr)	Section 6.6.10, Real-Time Revenue Neutrality Allocation;
(ss)	Section 6.6.11.1, Emergency Response Service Capacity Payments; 
(tt)	Section 6.6.11.2, Emergency Response Service Capacity Charge; 
(uu)	Section 6.6.14.2, Firm Fuel Supply Service Hourly Standby Fee Payment and Fuel Replacement Cost Recovery;
(vv)	Section 6.6.14.3, Firm Fuel Supply Service Capacity Charge;
(ww)	Section 6.7.4, Real-Time Settlement for Updated Day-Ahead Market Ancillary Service Obligations;
(xx)	Section 6.7.5.2, Regulation Up Service Payments and Charges;
(yy)	Section 6.7.5.3, Regulation Down Service Payments and Charges;
(zz)	Section 6.7.5.4, Responsive Reserve Payments and Charges;
(aaa)	Section 6.7.5.5	, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Payments and Charges;
(bbb)	Section 6.7.5.6	, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Payments and Charges;
(ccc)	Section 6.7.5.7	, Real-Time Derated Ancillary Service Capability Payment;
(ddd)	Section 6.7.5.8	, Real-Time Derated Ancillary Service Capability Charge;
(eee)	Section 6.7.6, Real-Time Ancillary Service Revenue Neutrality Allocation;
(fff)	Section 6.8.2, Recovery of Operating Losses During an LCAP or ECAP Effective Period;
(ggg)   Section 6.8.3, Charges for Operating Losses During an LCAP or ECAP Effective Period;
(hhh)	Section 7.9.2.1, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in Real-Time; and
(iii)	Section 9.16.1, ERCOT System Administration Fee.
(2)	In the event that ERCOT is unable to execute the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), ERCOT shall provide, on each RTM Settlement Statement, the dollar amount for the following RTM Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Settlement charges and payments:
(a)	Section 7.9.2.4, Payments for FGRs in Real-Time; and
(b)	Section 7.9.2.5, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund in Real-Time.
9.5.4	RTM Initial Statement
(1)	ERCOT shall issue an RTM Initial Statement for each Statement Recipient for a given Operating Day on the fifth day after the Operating Day, unless that fifth day is not a Business Day.  If the fifth day is not a Business Day, then ERCOT shall issue the RTM Initial Statement on the next Business Day after the fifth day.  Notwithstanding the above, if the fifth day after the Operating Day is on or prior to the Business Day on which Real-Time prices are final pursuant to paragraph (7) of Section 6.3, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations Timeline, then ERCOT shall issue the RTM Initial Statement on the first Business Day after the Real-Time prices are final.
9.5.5	RTM Final Statement
(1)	ERCOT shall issue an RTM Final Statement for each Statement Recipient for a given Operating Day on the 55th day after the Operating Day, unless that 55th day is not a Business Day.  If the 55th day is not a Business Day, then ERCOT shall issue the RTM Final Statement on the first Business Day after the 55th day.
(2)	An RTM Final Statement will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous Settlement Statement for the given Operating Day. 
9.5.6	RTM Resettlement Statement
(1)	ERCOT shall issue a RTM Resettlement Statement using corrected Settlement data due to resolution of Settlement and billing disputes and the correction of errors other than price errors pursuant to this Section.  Any resettlement occurring after an RTM True-Up Statement has been issued must meet the same Interval Data Recorder (IDR) Meter Data Threshold requirements defined in Section 9.5.8, RTM True-Up Statement, and is subject to the same limitations for filing a dispute.  Despite the preceding sentence, the ERCOT Board may, in its discretion, direct ERCOT to run a resettlement of any Operating Day, at any time, to address unusual circumstances.
(2)	ERCOT shall issue a RTM Resettlement Statement for a given Operating Day due to errors other than errors in prices when:
(a)	The total of all errors other than price errors results in an absolute value impact greater than 4% of the total RTM Statement amount for any single Statement Recipient for the Operating Day;
(b)	The impact to the Statement Recipient is greater than $400.00; and
(c)	The error is discovered, and a Market Notice of the error is provided to Market Participants, within one year of the Operating Day at issue.
(3)	Changes to meter data managed through a process other than a dispute or Alternative Dispute Resolution will not require evaluation of a resettlement defined in paragraph (2) above.
(4)	For any Settlement and billing disputes resolved prior to issuance of the RTM Final Statement, ERCOT shall effect the dispute’s resolution on the RTM Final Statement for that Operating Day.  If a dispute is submitted by 15 Business Days after the issuance of the RTM Initial Statement for an Operating Day and is not resolved on the RTM Final Statement, ERCOT will affect the dispute’s resolution on an RTM Resettlement Statement for that Operating Day.  ERCOT shall issue such an RTM Resettlement Statement within a reasonable time after resolving the Settlement and billing dispute.  
(5)	ERCOT must effect the resolution of any dispute submitted more than 15 Business Days after the issuance of the RTM Initial Statement on the next available Resettlement or RTM True-Up statement for that Operating Day.  For Settlement and billing disputes resolved under Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process, and submitted at least 20 Business Days before the scheduled date for issuance of the RTM True-Up Statement, ERCOT will include adjustments relating to the dispute on the RTM True-Up Statement.  Resolved disputes must be included on the next available Settlement Invoice after ERCOT has issued the RTM True-Up Statement.
(6)	ERCOT may not issue an RTM Resettlement Statement less than 20 days before a scheduled RTM Final Statement or RTM True-Up Statement for the relevant Operating Day.  An RTM Resettlement Statement will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous Settlement Statement for the given Operating Day.
(7)	ERCOT may issue an RTM Resettlement Statement after the issuance of an RTM Final Statement in order to resolve approved disputes related to Section 5.6.5.2, RUC Make-Whole Payment and RUC Clawback Charge for Resources Receiving OSAs.
(8)	ERCOT may issue RTM Resettlement Statements after the timeline referenced in paragraph (2) above if directed by the ERCOT Board, the result of a resolution of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedure, or under the procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.
(9)	If ERCOT is required to issue a Resettlement Statement per this Section, but resettlement is not practicable due to system limitations, ERCOT shall make the adjustments through a separate Invoice that is produced outside of normal Settlement Invoices.  The appropriate payments and charges, along with Settlement quality information, shall be supplied to all impacted Market Participants.  
9.5.7	Notice of Resettlement for the Real-Time Market
(1)	While maintaining confidentiality of all Market Participants, ERCOT shall send a Market Notice in conjunction with the resettlement, indicating the resettlement of a specific Operating Day and the date of issuance of the RTM Resettlement Statements.  ERCOT shall include the following information in the notice of resettlement:
(a)	Detailed description of reason(s) for resettlement;
(b)	Affected Operating Days;
(c)	Affected settlement Charge Types; and
(d)	Total resettled amount, by Charge Type.
9.5.8	RTM True-Up Statement
(1)	ERCOT shall use the best available Settlement data, as described in Section 9.5.2, Settlement Statements for the RTM, to produce an RTM True-Up Statement for each Statement Recipient for each given Operating Day.
(2)	ERCOT shall issue RTM True-Up Statements 180 days following the Operating Day, if ERCOT has received and validated usage data from at least 99% of the total number of Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) with a BUSIDRRQ Load Profile Type code and if ERCOT has received and validated usage data from at least 90% of the total number of ESI IDs with a BUSIDRRQ Load Profile Type code from each Meter Reading Entity (MRE) representing at least 20 Interval Data Recorder (IDR) ESI IDs (IDR Meter Data Threshold).  If the above conditions have not been met, then ERCOT shall issue RTM True-Up Statements as soon as the IDR Meter data becomes available for that Operating Day.  If no RTM True-Up Statement has been issued 365 days after the Operating Day, then ERCOT shall issue a RTM True-Up Statement for that Operating Day.  If any RTM True-Up Statement issuance date does not fall on a Business Day, then the RTM True-Up Statement must be issued by the end of the next Business Day after the RTM True-Up Settlement date.
(3)	An RTM True-Up Statement will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous Settlement Statement for the given Operating Day. 
9.5.9	Notice of True-Up Settlement Timeline Changes for the Real-Time Market
(1)	If the IDR Meter Data Threshold has not been met by the 180th day after the Operating Day (or, if the 180th day is not a Business Day, by the next day thereafter that is a Business Day), then ERCOT shall send a Market Notice about the delay of any RTM True-Up Statement issuance indicating the IDR Meter Data Threshold has not been met.
(2)	For any delayed RTM True-Up Statement, ERCOT shall send a Market Notice indicating that it will issue an RTM True-Up Statement for a specific Operating Day within two Business Days after discovering the delay.  As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall send a Market Notice with the revised date on which the delayed RTM True-Up Statement will be issued.
9.5.10	Confirmation for the Real-Time Market
(1)	It is the responsibility of each Statement Recipient to notify ERCOT if a Settlement Statement for the RTM is not available on the MIS Certified Area on the date specified for posting of that Settlement Statement in the Settlement Calendar.  Each Settlement Statement for the RTM is deemed to have been available on the posting date specified on the Settlement Calendar, unless it notifies ERCOT to the contrary.  If ERCOT receives notice that a Settlement Statement is not available, ERCOT shall make reasonable attempts to provide the Settlement Statement to the Statement Recipient, and ERCOT shall modify the Settlement and billing timeline accordingly for that Settlement Statement.  
9.5.11	Validation of the True-Up Statement for the Real-Time Market
(1)	The Statement Recipient is considered to have validated each RTM True-Up Statement unless it has filed a Settlement and billing dispute or reported an exception within ten Business Days after the RTM True-Up Statement has been posted on the MIS Certified Area.  
9.5.12	Suspension of Issuing Settlement Statements for the Real-Time Market
(1)	The ERCOT Board may direct ERCOT to suspend the issuance of any Settlement Statement for the RTM to address unusual circumstances.  Any proposal to suspend settlements must be presented to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for review and comment, in a reasonable manner under the circumstances, before such suspension.
9.6	Settlement Invoices for the Day-Ahead Market and Real-Time Market
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare Settlement Invoices on a net basis based on Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Statements, DAM Resettlement Statements, Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Statements, RTM Final Statements, RTM True-Up Statements and RTM Resettlement Statements.  ERCOT shall issue the Settlement Invoices on the same Business Day as the day that the DAM and RTM Statements are posted to the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.  ERCOT will post the actual dates that it will issue the Settlement Invoices under Section 9.1.2, Settlement Calendar.  The Market Participant to whom the Settlement Invoice is addressed (“Invoice Recipient”) is either a net payee or net payor.  
(2)	Each Invoice Recipient shall pay any net debit and be entitled to receive any net credit shown on the Settlement Invoice on the payment due date, whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the debit or credit.
(3)	ERCOT shall post Settlement Invoices on the MIS Certified Area.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the Settlement Invoice on the MIS Certified Area once posted by ERCOT. 
(4)	Settlement Invoice items must be grouped by DAM, DAM Resettlement, RTM Initial, RTM Final, RTM Resettlement, and RTM True-Up categories and must be sorted by Operating Day within each category.  Settlement Invoices must contain the following information:
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT);
(c)	Net Amount Due/Payable – the aggregate summary of all charges owed by or due to the Invoice Recipient;
(d)	Time Periods – the time period covered for each line item;
(e)	Run Date – the date on which the Invoice was created and published;
(f)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by ERCOT for payment tracking purposes;
(g)	Statement Reference – an identification code used to reference each Settlement Statement invoiced;
(h)	Payment Date and Time – the date and time that Invoice amounts are to be paid or received;
(i)	Remittance Information Details – details including the account number, bank name and electronic transfer instructions of the ERCOT account to which any amounts owed by the Invoice Recipient are to be paid or of the Invoice Recipient’s account from which ERCOT may draw payments due; and
(j)	Overdue Terms – the terms that would be applied if payments were received late.
9.7	Payment Process for the Settlement Invoices
(1)	Payments for the Settlement Invoices are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis in a two-day, two-step process as detailed below.
9.7.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for the Settlement Invoices
(1)	The payment due date and time for the Settlement Invoice, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, is 1700 on the second Bank Business Day after the Settlement Invoice date, unless the second Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the second Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the second Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day.
(2)	All Settlement Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in U.S. Dollars (USDs) by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date. 
9.7.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for the Settlement Invoices
(1)	Subject to the availability of funds as discussed in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT must pay Settlement Invoices with funds owed to an Invoice Recipient by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after payments are due for that Settlement Invoice under Section 9.7.1, Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for the Settlement Invoices, subject to ERCOT’s right to withhold payments for any reason set forth in these Protocols or as a matter of law, unless that next Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If that next Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due on the next Bank Business Day thereafter that is also a Business Day. 
(2)	ERCOT shall give irrevocable instructions to the ERCOT financial institution to remit to each Invoice Recipient for same day value the amounts determined by ERCOT to be available for payment to that Invoice Recipient under paragraph (d) of Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients. 
9.7.3	Enforcing the Financial Security of a Short-Paying Invoice Recipient
(1)	ERCOT shall make reasonable efforts to enforce the Financial Security of the short-paying Invoice Recipient (pursuant to Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants) to the extent necessary to cover the short-pay.  A short-paying Invoice Recipient shall restore the level of its Financial Security under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants.
(2)	ERCOT shall provide to all Market Participants payment details on all short payments and subsequent reimbursements of short pays.  Details must include the identity of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and the dollar amount attributable to that Invoice Recipient, broken down by Invoice numbers.  In addition, ERCOT shall provide the aggregate total of all amounts due to all Invoice Recipients before applying the amount not paid on the Invoice.
9.8	CRR Auction Award Invoices
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare invoices for each Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction (CRR Auction Invoice) on a net basis.  Invoices must be issued on the first Business Day following the completion of a CRR Auction on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.  For each CRR Auction Invoice, the CRR Account Holder to whom the Invoice is addressed (“Invoice Recipient”) is either a net payee or net payor.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the CRR Auction Invoice on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area once posted by ERCOT.
(2)	Each Invoice Recipient shall pay any net debit and be entitled to receive any net credit shown on the CRR Auction Invoice on the payment due date.  Payments for CRR Auction Invoices are due on the applicable payment due date, whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the payment. 
(3)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for each Invoice Recipient a CRR Auction Invoice based on CRR Auction charges and payments as set forth in:
(a)	Section 7.5.6.1, Payment of an Awarded CRR Auction Offer;
(b)	Section 7.5.6.2, Charge of an Awarded CRR Auction Bid; and
(c)	Section 7.5.6.3, Charge of PCRRs Pertaining to a CRR Auction. 
(d)	Section 7.7, Point-to-Point (PTP) Option Award Charge.
(4)	CRR Auction Invoices must contain the following information:
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT);
(c)	Net Amount Due/Payable – the aggregate summary of all charges owed to or due from the Invoice Recipient summarized by CRR Auction;
(d)	Time Period – the CRR Auction for which the Invoice is generated;
(e)	Run Date – the date on which ERCOT created and published the Invoice;
(f)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by ERCOT for payment tracking purposes;
(g)	Product Description – a description of each product awarded in, sold in, or allocated before the CRR Auctions, or of any applicable charge;
(h)	Payment Date – the date and time that Invoice amounts are to be paid or received; and
(i)	Remittance Information Details – details including the account number, bank name and electronic transfer instructions of the ERCOT account to which any amounts owed by the Invoice Recipient are to be paid or of the Invoice Recipient’s account from which ERCOT may draw payments due.
9.9	Payment Process for CRR Auction Invoices
(1)	Payments for the Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis in a two-day, two-step process as detailed below.
9.9.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for the CRR Auction
(1)	The payment due date and time for the CRR Auction Invoice, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, is 1700 on the third Bank Business Day after the CRR Auction Invoice date, unless third Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the third Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the third Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day.
(2)	All CRR Auction Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in U.S. Dollars (USDs) by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date. 
(3)	All CRR Auction Invoices must be paid in full on the Invoice due date.
9.9.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for the CRR Auction
(1)	CRR Auction Invoices with funds owed to an Invoice Recipient must be paid by ERCOT to the Invoice Recipient by 1700 on the next day that is both a Business Day and a Bank Business Day after the day that payments are due for that CRR Auction Invoice under Section 9.9.1, Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for the CRR Auction, subject to ERCOT’s right to withhold payments under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants or pursuant to the common law. 
(2)	ERCOT shall give irrevocable instructions to the ERCOT financial institution to remit, to each Invoice Recipient for same day value the amounts owed to each Invoice Recipient.
9.9.3	Enforcing the Security of a Short-Paying CRR Auction Invoice Recipient
(1)	ERCOT shall make reasonable efforts to enforce the security of the short-paying Invoice Recipient (pursuant to Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants) to the extent necessary to cover the short-pay.  A short-paying Invoice Recipient shall restore the level of its security under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants.  
9.10	CRR Auction Revenue Distribution Invoices
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare Invoices for Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) on a monthly basis on the first Business Day following the Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Settlement posting of the last day of the month on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.
(2)	ERCOT shall true up the distribution of monthly CRR Auction revenues by posting additional Settlement Invoices on the first Business Day following the RTM Final Settlement posting of the last day of the month on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.  A trued up CARD Invoice will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous CARD Invoice for a given month.
(3)	For each cycle, the Market Participant to whom the CARD Invoice is addressed (“Invoice Recipient”) is either a payee or payor.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the CARD Invoice on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area once posted by ERCOT.
(4)	Each Invoice Recipient shall pay any debit and be entitled to receive any credit shown on the CARD Invoice on the payment due date.  Payments for CARD Invoices are due on the applicable payment due date whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the payment.
(5)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for each Invoice Recipient a CARD Invoice based the calculations located:
(a)	Section 7.5.6.4, CRR Auction Revenues; and
(b)	Section 7.5.7, Method for Distributing CRR Auction Revenues.
(6)	CARD Invoices must contain the following information: 
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT); 
(c)	Net Amount Due/Payable – the aggregate summary of all charges owed to or due from the Invoice Recipient summarized by CRR Auction revenue month;
(d)	Time Period – the CRR Auction revenue month for which the Invoice is generated, including Initial or Final distribution;
(e)	Run Date – the date on which ERCOT created and published the Invoice;
(f)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by ERCOT for payment tracking purposes;
(g)	Payment Date – the date and time that Invoice amounts are to be paid or received; and
(h)	Remittance Information Details – details including the account number, bank name and electronic transfer instructions of the ERCOT account to which any amounts owed by the Invoice Recipient are to be paid or of the Invoice Recipient’s account from which ERCOT may draw payments due.
9.11	Payment Process for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution
(1)	Payments for Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) Invoices are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis in a two-day, two-step process as detailed below.
9.11.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution
(1)	The payment due date and time for the CARD Invoice, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, is 1700 on the fifth Bank Business Day after the CARD Invoice date, unless the fifth Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the fifth Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the fifth Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day.
(2)	All CARD Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in U.S. Dollars (USDs) by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date. 
9.11.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution
(1)	CARD Invoices with funds owed to an Invoice Recipient must be paid by ERCOT to the Invoice Recipient by 1700 on the next day that is both a Business Day and a Bank Business Day after the day that payments are due for that CARD Invoice under Section 9.11.1, Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution, subject to ERCOT’s right to withhold payments under Section 16 and pursuant to common law. 
(2)	ERCOT shall give irrevocable instructions to the ERCOT financial institution to remit, to each Invoice Recipient for same day value, the amounts owed to each Invoice Recipient. 
9.11.3	Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients for CRR Auction Revenue Distribution
(1)	If at least one Invoice Recipient owing funds does not pay its CARD Invoice in full (short-pay), ERCOT shall follow the procedure set forth below:
(a)	ERCOT shall make every reasonable attempt to collect payment from each short-paying Invoice Recipient before any payments owed by ERCOT for that month’s distribution of CRR Auction revenues is due to be paid to applicable Invoice Recipient(s). 
(b)	ERCOT shall draw on any available security pledged to ERCOT by each short-paying Invoice Recipient that did not pay the amount due under paragraph (a) above.  If the amount of any such draw is greater than the amount of the short-paying Invoice Recipient’s cash collateral held in excess of that required to cover its Total Potential Exposure (TPE) (“Excess Collateral”), then a draw on available security for a short-paying Invoice Recipient shall be considered a Late Payment for purposes of Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants.
(c)	ERCOT shall offset or recoup any amounts owed, or to be owed, by ERCOT to a short-paying Invoice Recipient against amounts not paid by that Invoice Recipient and ERCOT shall apply the amount offset or recouped to cover payment shortages by that Invoice Recipient.
(d)	If, after taking the actions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), above, ERCOT still does not have sufficient funds to pay all amounts that it owes to CARD Invoice Recipients in full, ERCOT shall reduce payments to all CARD Invoice Recipients owed monies from ERCOT.  The reductions shall be based on a pro rata basis of monies owed to each CARD Invoice Recipient, to the extent necessary to clear ERCOT’s accounts on the payment due date to achieve revenue neutrality for ERCOT.  ERCOT shall provide to all Market Participants payment details on all short payments and subsequent reimbursements of short pays.  Details must include the identity of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and the dollar amount attributable to that Invoice Recipient, broken down by Invoice numbers.  In addition, ERCOT shall provide the aggregate total of all amounts due to all Invoice Recipients before applying the amount not paid on the CARD Invoice.
9.11.4	Enforcing the Security of a Short-Paying CARD Invoice Recipient
(1)	ERCOT shall make reasonable efforts to enforce the security of the short-paying Invoice Recipient (pursuant to Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants) to the extent necessary to cover the short-pay.  A short-paying Invoice Recipient shall restore the level of its security under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants.
9.12	CRR Balancing Account Invoices
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare Invoices for the Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Balancing Account (CRRBA) on a monthly basis on the first Business Day following the Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Settlement posting of the last day of the month on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.
(2)	ERCOT shall true up the distribution of monthly the CRRBA by posting additional Settlement Invoices on the first Business Day following the RTM Final Settlement posting of the last day of the month on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.  A trued up CRRBA Invoice will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous CRRBA Invoice for a given month.
(3)	ERCOT shall prepare resettlement Invoices in the event that the balance in the CRRBA for the month changes due to a Day-Ahead Market (DAM) resettlement after the initial balancing account Invoices for that month have been posted as specified in the Settlement Calendar.  The Monthly Load Ratio Share (MLRS) as described in Section 7.9.3.5, CRR Balancing Account Closure, used for the resettlement CRRBA Invoice will be the same one used for the most recently posted balancing account Invoices.  A resettlement CRRBA Invoice will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous CRRBA Invoice for a given month.
(4)	For each Invoice cycle, the Market Participant to whom the CRRBA Invoice is addressed (“Invoice Recipient”) is a payee.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the CRRBA Invoice on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area once posted by ERCOT.
(5)	ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for each Invoice Recipient a CRRBA Invoice based on the calculations located in Sections 7.9.3.4, Monthly Refunds to Short-Paid CRR Owners, and 7.9.3.5.
(6)	CRRBA Invoices must contain the following information: 
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT); 
(c)	Net Amount Payable – the aggregate summary of all amounts owed to the Invoice Recipient summarized by month;
(d)	Time Period – the time period covered for each line item;
(e)	Run Date – the date on which the ERCOT created and published Invoice;
(f)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by ERCOT for payment tracking purposes; and
(g)	Payment Date – the date and time that Invoice amounts are to be received.
(7)	Each Invoice Recipient shall receive any credit shown on the CRRBA Invoice on the payment due date.  Credit shown on the CRRBA Invoice will be paid on due date whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the payment.
9.13	Payment Process for the CRR Balancing Account
9.13.1	Payment Process for the Initial CRR Balancing Account
(1)	Payments for the Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Balancing Account (CRRBA) are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis in a one-day, one-step process, as detailed below.
(a)	By 1700 on the first day that is both a Business Day and a Bank Business Day following the due date of the Settlement Invoice that includes the Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Settlement Statement for the last day of the month and subject to ERCOT’s right to withhold payments under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, and pursuant to common law, ERCOT shall pay on a net credit shown on the CRRBA Invoice based on amounts due:
(i)	To each short-paid CRR Owner a monthly refund from the positive balance in the CRRBA, with the amount paid to each CRR Owner as calculated in Section 7.9.3.4, Monthly Refunds to Short-Paid CRR Owners; and  
(ii)	To each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), any remaining positive balance in the CRRBA, with the amount paid to each QSE as calculated in Section 7.9.3.5, CRR Balancing Account Closure.
(b)	ERCOT shall give irrevocable instructions to the ERCOT financial institution to remit, to each CRR Owner or QSE, for same day value, the amounts determined by ERCOT to be available for payment. 
9.13.2 	Payment Process for Resettlement of the CRR Balancing Account
(1)	In the event that a resettlement CRRBA Invoice is required, payments for the resettlement CRRBA Invoice are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis in a two-day, two-step process as detailed below in Section 9.13.2.1, Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Resettlement of the CRR Balancing Account. 
9.13.2.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Resettlement of the CRR Balancing Account
(1)	The payment due date and time for the resettlement CRRBA Invoice, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, is 1700 on the fifth Bank Business Day after the resettlement CRRBA Invoice date, unless the fifth Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the fifth Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the fifth Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day.
(2)	All resettlement CRRBA Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in U.S. Dollars (USDs) by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date. 
9.13.2.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for Resettlement of the CRR Balancing Account
(1)	Resettlement CRRBA Invoices with funds owed to an Invoice Recipient must be paid by ERCOT to the Invoice Recipient by 1700 on the next day that is both a Business Day and a Bank Business Day after the day that payments are due for that resettlement CRRBA Invoice as described in paragraph (1) of Section 9.13.2.1, Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Resettlement of CRR Balancing Account.  The Invoice Recipient payment to ERCOT for resettlement of the CRRBA is subject to ERCOT’s right to withhold payments under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants.
(2)	ERCOT shall give irrevocable instructions to the ERCOT financial institution to remit to each Invoice Recipient for same day value, the amounts owed to each Invoice Recipient. 
9.13.2.3	Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients for Resettlement of CRR Balancing Account
(1)	If at least one Invoice Recipient owing funds does not pay its resettlement CRRBA Invoice in full (short-pay), ERCOT shall follow the procedure set forth below:
(a)	ERCOT shall make every reasonable attempt to collect payment from each short-paying Invoice Recipient before any payments owed by ERCOT for that month’s distribution of resettlement CRRBA revenues is due to be paid to applicable Invoice Recipient(s). 
(b)	ERCOT shall draw on any available security pledged to ERCOT by each short-paying Invoice Recipient that did not pay the amount due under paragraph (a) above.  If the amount of any such draw is greater than the amount of the short-paying Invoice Recipient’s cash collateral held in excess of that required to cover its Total Potential Exposure (TPE) (“Excess Collateral”), then a draw on available security for a short-paying Invoice Recipient shall be considered a Late Payment for purposes of Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants.
(c)	ERCOT shall offset or recoup any amounts owed, or to be owed, by ERCOT to a short-paying Invoice Recipient against amounts not paid by that Invoice Recipient and ERCOT shall apply the amount offset or recouped to cover payment shortages by that Invoice Recipient.
(d)	If, after taking the actions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, ERCOT still does not have sufficient funds to pay all amounts that it owes to resettlement CRRBA Invoice Recipients in full, ERCOT shall reduce payments to all resettlement CRRBA Invoice Recipients owed monies from ERCOT.  The reductions shall be based on a pro rata basis of monies owed to each resettlement CRRBA Invoice Recipient, to the extent necessary to clear ERCOT’s accounts on the payment due date to achieve revenue neutrality for ERCOT.  ERCOT shall provide to all Market Participants payment details on all short payments and subsequent reimbursements of short pays.  Details must include the identity of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and the dollar amount attributable to that Invoice Recipient, broken down by Invoice numbers.  In addition, ERCOT shall provide the aggregate total of all amounts due to all Invoice Recipients before applying the amount not paid on the resettlement CRRBA Invoice.
9.14	Settlement and Billing Dispute Process
9.14.1	Data Review, Validation, Confirmation, and Dispute of Settlement Statements
(1)	Settlement Statement Recipients and Invoice Recipients for the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), Real-Time Market (RTM), and Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction are responsible for reviewing their Settlement Statements and Settlement Invoices to verify the accuracy of the data used to produce them.  Other than disputes related to resettlement arising from a completed Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) proceeding, Settlement Statement Recipients and Invoice Recipients must submit any dispute related to a Settlement Statement or Settlement Invoice pursuant to this Section.  A Market Participant who wishes to dispute a resettlement arising from a completed ADR proceeding must appeal ERCOT’s disposition of that proceeding in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section 20.9, Resolution of Alternative Dispute Resolution Proceedings and Notification to Market Participants.
9.14.2	Notice of Dispute
(1)	A Settlement Statement Recipient may dispute items or calculations in the most recently issued Settlement Statement for an Operating Day, except as limited for RTM True-Up Statements in paragraph (3) below.  The dispute will apply to the Operating Day in question, not to the associated Settlement Statement.  The Market Participant must enter the Settlement and billing dispute electronically through the ERCOT dispute tool provided on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.  In processing disputes under this Section, ERCOT will analyze the latest Settlement Statement issued.    
(2)	An Invoice Recipient may dispute elements of an Invoice that are not the result of a Settlement Statement that are contained on the Invoice.  The Invoice Recipient must file the Invoice dispute within ten Business Days of the date on which ERCOT posted the Invoice.
(3)	The Settlement Statement Recipient is deemed to have validated each RTM True-Up Statement or Resettlement Statement arising from the True-Up Statement unless it has raised a Settlement and billing dispute or reported an exception within ten Business Days of the date on which ERCOT issued the Settlement Statement.  With respect to an RTM True-Up Statement or any subsequent Resettlement Statement after ERCOT issued the True-Up Statement, ERCOT will consider only Settlement and billing disputes associated with incremental changes between the RTM True-Up Statement or Resettlement Statement, and the most recent previous Settlement Statement for that Operating Day.  The Settlement Statement Recipient may recover only the amounts associated with the incremental monetary change between the prior statement and the statement from which the dispute arose.  ERCOT shall reject late-filed Settlement and billing disputes.  Once the deadline for filing a dispute has passed, the RTM True-Up Statement binds the Settlement Statement Recipient to which it relates unless ERCOT issues a subsequent Resettlement Statement pursuant to this Section.    
(4)	ERCOT shall reject Settlement and billing disputes for a given Operating Day during the 20 Business Days before the scheduled date for issuance of the RTM True-Up Statement for that Operating Day. 
(5)	However, to the extent a disputing party claims that the Settlement or billing dispute relates to information made available under Section 1.3.3, Expiration of Confidentiality, the disputing party must register the Settlement and billing dispute with ERCOT by electronic means within 60 days after the date the information became available.  All communication to and from ERCOT concerning disputes must be made through either the MIS Certified Area or other electronic communication.
(6)	The Settlement Statement Recipient is deemed to have validated each DAM Settlement or Resettlement Statement unless it has raised a Settlement and billing dispute or reported an exception within ten Business Days of the date on which ERCOT issued the Settlement or Resettlement Statement.  With respect to a DAM Resettlement Statement, ERCOT will consider only Settlement and billing disputes associated with incremental changes between the DAM Resettlement Statement and the most recent previous Settlement Statement for that Operating Day.  The Settlement Statement Recipient may recover only the amounts associated with the incremental monetary change between the prior statement and the statement from which the dispute arose.  ERCOT shall reject late-filed Settlement and billing disputes.  Once the deadline for filing a dispute has passed, a DAM Statement binds the Settlement Statement Recipient to which it relates unless ERCOT issues a subsequent Resettlement Statement.
(7)	A CRR Auction Invoice, CRR Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) Invoice, or CRR Balancing Account (CRRBA) Invoice Recipient may dispute elements of an Invoice that are contained on the Invoice.  The Invoice Recipient must file the CRR Invoice dispute within ten Business Days of the date on which ERCOT posted the Invoice.
9.14.3	Contents of Notice
(1)	ERCOT shall reject a dispute that does not contain the data elements listed in this Section.
(2)	ERCOT shall provide automatic field population techniques or drop-down boxes for appropriate data elements below.  The notice of Settlement and billing dispute must state clearly:
(a)	Disputing Entity;
(b)	Dispute contact person(s);
(c)	Dispute contact information;
(d)	Operating Day or Invoice date in dispute;
(e)	Charge Type;
(f)	Time period in dispute;
(g)	Amount in dispute;
(h)	Settlement and billing dispute type; and
(i)	Reasons for the dispute.
(3)	Each Settlement and billing dispute must specify an Operating Day or Invoice date and a Charge Type.  If a condition causing a dispute affects multiple Operating Days or Charge Types, a Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient may file a dispute form for each Charge Type for one or more Operating Days affected on a single dispute that are all in the same calendar month.
(4)	A Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient may pursue the dispute through any process provided by ERCOT for resolving differences in Settlement determinants.
(5)	Forms for entering a Settlement and billing dispute must be provided on the MIS Certified Area.
(6)	The Market Participant must submit the Settlement and billing dispute to ERCOT with sufficient evidence to support the claim.  
(7)	The Market Participant must submit a dispute using an ERCOT-approved electronic format.  ERCOT shall provide a dispute tracking identifier to the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient.
9.14.4	ERCOT Processing of Disputes
(1)	ERCOT shall process disputes in accordance with this Section, Section 9.14.2, Notice of Dispute, and the required data in Section 9.14.3, Contents of Notice.
(2)	If ERCOT requires additional data to resolve the dispute, ERCOT shall send the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient a list of the required additional data within seven Business Days of the date the dispute was filed.  The Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient shall respond with the entire set of required data within five Business Days of ERCOT’s request or by a date agreed upon by ERCOT and the Market Participant that is no later than eight Business Days prior to the posting of the True-Up Settlement Statement for the disputed Operating Day.  If ERCOT does not receive the data within that time frame, ERCOT shall deny the dispute.
(3)	On each Business Day, ERCOT shall issue an aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the MIS Secure Area containing information related to all disputes that are not yet closed or that have been closed recently.  Additionally, on each Business Day and for each Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient, ERCOT shall issue a report on the MIS Certified Area containing the status of each submitted dispute.  The report shall identify the disputed charge type(s), status of the dispute, resolution and resolution date, if applicable, and a financial impact in dollars of the dispute as submitted by disputing Entity.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	On each Business Day, ERCOT shall issue an aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the ERCOT website containing information related to all disputes that are not yet closed or that have been closed recently.  Additionally, on each Business Day and for each Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient, ERCOT shall issue a report on the MIS Certified Area containing the status of each submitted dispute.  The report shall identify the disputed charge type(s), status of the dispute, resolution and resolution date, if applicable, and a financial impact in dollars of the dispute as submitted by disputing Entity. 
(4)	ERCOT shall make all reasonable attempts to complete all RTM Settlement and billing disputes submitted within 15 Business Days of the issuance of the RTM Initial Statement in time for inclusion on the RTM Final Statement for the relevant Operating Day.
(5)	All complete disputes of the DAM received within ten Business Days after ERCOT posts that day’s DAM Settlement Statement shall be included in a Resettlement of the DAM Operating Day under Section 9.2.5, DAM Resettlement Statement.  
(6)	For Settlement and billing disputes requiring complex research or additional time for resolution, ERCOT shall notify the Invoice Recipient or Settlement Statement Recipient of the length of time expected to research and resolve those disputes and, if ERCOT grants a portion or all of the dispute, ERCOT shall post the necessary adjustments on the next available Settlement Statement for the Operating Day.  
(7)	Settlement Statement Recipients or Invoice Recipients have the right to proceed to the ADR process in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds, for filed disputes that cannot be resolved through the Settlement and billing dispute process outlined in Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process.
(8)	All complete disputes of the CRR Market received within ten Business Days after ERCOT posts that day’s CRR Settlement Statement shall be resolved as soon as practicable.  
 9.14.4.1	Status of Dispute 
(1)	ERCOT will assign a status to each dispute as defined in the following Sections.
9.14.4.1.1	Not Started
(1)	The status of a Settlement and billing dispute will initially be set to “Not Started” when the Market Participant enters the dispute into the ERCOT dispute resolution system. 
9.14.4.1.2	Open 
(1)	The status of a Settlement and billing dispute is set to “Open” when the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient submits a dispute to ERCOT and ERCOT begins the resolution process. 
9.14.4.1.3	Closed
(1)	When the status is set to “Closed,” no updates or additions are permitted to the dispute record.  The status of the dispute is “Closed” when one of the following conditions occurs:
(a)	If, after 45 days from receiving notice of a denied dispute, the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient does not begin the ADR process, ERCOT will close the dispute.  
(b)	If ERCOT grants a Settlement and billing dispute, ERCOT will close the dispute no sooner than the date ERCOT publishes the next available Settlement Statement or Invoice for the associated Operating Day.  
(c)	If ERCOT grants a dispute with exceptions, ERCOT will close the dispute no sooner than ten Business Days after ERCOT publishes the resolution.  If the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient disagrees with ERCOT’s exceptions, ERCOT will close dispute upon completion of further investigation and resolution in accordance with Section 9.14.4.2.3, Granted with Exceptions.
9.14.4.1.4	Rejected
(1)	ERCOT shall set the status of a Settlement and billing dispute to “Rejected” when one of the following circumstances is met:
(a) 	The dispute is filed late, unless filed in accordance with paragraph (5) of Section 9.14.2, Notice of Dispute, due to an expiration of confidentiality as defined under Section 1.3.3, Expiration of Confidentiality. 
(b)	During the 20 Business Days before the scheduled date for issuance of the RTM True-Up Statement for that Operating Day. 
(c)	The dispute does not contain the required data as set forth in Section 9.14.3, Contents of Notice.  ERCOT shall provide specific Protocol language supporting the reasons that data provided by the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient is insufficient.  If able to do so timely, an Invoice Recipient or Settlement Statement Recipient may resubmit the dispute with additional information under Section 9.14.2.  Once the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient submits the required information and ERCOT determines the Settlement and billing dispute is timely and complete, the dispute status is changed to “Open.”
9.14.4.1.5	Withdrawn
(1)	A Market Participant who submitted a Settlement and billing dispute may withdraw that dispute at any time.  If withdrawal occurs, the Dispute status is set to “Withdrawn” and any research and resolution activities on that dispute will cease. 
9.14.4.1.6	ADR
(1)	Requests for ADR shall be considered Protected Information in accordance with paragraph (1)(ff) of Section 1.3.1.1, Items Considered Protected Information, and Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  As soon as practicable after ERCOT receives a written request for ADR pursuant to Section 20.4, Initiation of ADR Proceedings, ERCOT shall post a Settlement and billing dispute status of “ADR” to the aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the MIS Secure Area.  The dispute will remain in the ADR status as long as the Market Participant has an active ADR.  At the end of the ADR process, ERCOT shall post a Settlement and billing dispute status of “Closed” to the aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the MIS Secure Area.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	Requests for ADR shall be considered Protected Information in accordance with paragraph (1)(ff) of Section 1.3.1.1, Items Considered Protected Information, and Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  As soon as practicable after ERCOT receives a written request for ADR pursuant to Section 20.4, Initiation of ADR Proceedings, ERCOT shall post a Settlement and billing dispute status of “ADR” to the aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the ERCOT website.  The dispute will remain in the ADR status as long as the Market Participant has an active ADR.  At the end of the ADR process, ERCOT shall post a Settlement and billing dispute status of “Closed” to the aggregated Settlement and billing dispute resolution report on the ERCOT website.
9.14.4.2	Resolution of Dispute
(1)	Each resolved dispute will have a resolution as defined in the following Sections.
9.14.4.2.1	Denied
(1)	If ERCOT concludes that the Settlement Statement or Invoice is correct, ERCOT shall deny the Settlement and billing dispute.  ERCOT shall notify the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient when it denies a Settlement and billing dispute and provide the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient the reasons and supporting data for the denial, while maintaining the confidentiality of Protected Information.  
(2)	If the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient is not satisfied with the outcome of a denied Settlement and billing dispute, the Settlement Statement Recipient or Invoice Recipient may proceed to ADR as described in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  
9.14.4.2.2	Granted
(1)	When ERCOT determines that the disputed Settlement Statement or Invoice are in error as alleged in the Settlement and billing dispute, ERCOT shall grant the Settlement and billing dispute and notify the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient of the resolution and provide it the reasons and supporting data for resolution, while maintaining the confidentiality of Protected Information.  ERCOT shall make available to all other Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipients the financial impact, as submitted by disputing Entity, on the Settlement and billing dispute resolution report per paragraph (3) of Section 9.14.4, ERCOT Processing of Disputes.  Upon resolution of the issue, ERCOT shall process the dispute’s resolution on the next available Settlement Statement for the affected Operating Day.
9.14.4.2.3	Granted with Exceptions
(1)	ERCOT may determine that a Settlement and billing dispute is “Granted with Exceptions” when ERCOT deems the basis for the Settlement and billing dispute partially correct.  ERCOT shall provide the exception information to the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient.  ERCOT shall notify the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient of the “Granted with Exceptions” resolution and shall provide the reasons and supporting data, while maintaining the confidentiality of Protected Information for the resolution.  ERCOT shall make available to all other Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipients the financial impact, as submitted by the disputing Entity, on the Settlement and billing dispute resolution report per paragraph (3) of Section 9.14.4, ERCOT Processing of Disputes.  The Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient of the dispute granted with exceptions shall acknowledge receipt of the notice within ten Business Days after ERCOT publishes the resolution as “Granted with Exceptions”.  The acknowledgement must indicate acceptance or rejection of the documented exceptions to the granting of the dispute.  If the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient does not timely reject the dispute outcome, it shall be deemed accepted.  If the Market Participant accepts the exceptions, ERCOT shall post the necessary adjustments on the next available Settlement Statement for the affected Operating Day. 
(2)	If a Settlement Invoice or Statement Recipient rejects the outcome of a dispute “Granted with Exceptions,” ERCOT must investigate the dispute further.  ERCOT must include the granted portion of the dispute on the next Settlement Statement for the affected Operating Day.  After further investigation, if ERCOT subsequently grants the Settlement and billing dispute, ERCOT must process the dispute on the next available Settlement Statement for the affected Operating Day.  If exceptions to the dispute still exist, the Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipient may either accept the dispute for resolution as “Granted with Exceptions” or begin ADR according to Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.
9.14.5	Settlement of Emergency Response Service
(1)	ERCOT shall post the settlement for each Emergency Response Service (ERS) type and Time Period in an ERS Contract Period 20 days after the final Settlement of the last Operating Day of the ERS Standard Contract Term is posted, as described in paragraph (1) of Section 9.5.5, RTM Final Statement.  If the 20th day is not a Business Day, ERCOT will post the ERS Settlement on the next Business Day thereafter.  All disputes for the Settlement of the ERS Contract Period are due ten Business Days after the date that the ERS settlement was posted.  ERCOT shall resolve any approved disputes upon resettlement of the ERS Contract Period, as described in paragraph (2) below.
(2)	ERCOT shall post the resettlement for each ERS type and Time Period in an ERS Contract Period on the True-Up Settlement for the Operating Day on which the charge was first settled as described in paragraph (1) above.  ERS disputes filed based on a change in Load after the True-Up Settlement will be approved only if the Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) Load changes by 10% or more.  ERCOT shall resolve any approved ERS disputes no later than 30 Business Days after the date that the ERS resettlement was posted. 
9.14.6	Disputes for Operations Decisions
(1)	Settlement Statement or Invoice Recipients may not dispute a Settlement Statement or Invoice due to a decision made by ERCOT in its operation of the ERCOT System, unless the Market Participant alleged the decision violated these Protocols.  Inquiries or disputes concerning such decisions, Protocols, or Operating Guides must be handled through the Protocol change process set forth in Section 21, Revision Request Process.
9.14.7	Disputes for RUC Make-Whole Payment for Fuel Costs
(1)	If the actual price paid for delivered natural gas for a specific Resource during a Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-Committed Interval is greater than Fuel Index Price (FIP) adjusted by the proxy fuel adder, X, defined in the Verifiable Cost Manual (i.e., FIP * (1+X)), then the QSE may file a Settlement dispute for that Resource’s RUC Make-Whole Payment.  The maximum amount that may be recovered through this dispute process is the difference between the RUC Guarantee based on the actual price paid and the RUC Guarantee based on the fuel index price FIP * (1+X).  When calculating the RUC Guarantee based on the actual price paid for Resources with approved verifiable costs, the RUC Guarantee may be adjusted to reflect the cost difference between the fuel burned and the fuel calculated based on verifiable cost rates.  This adjustment will allow for the RUC Guarantee to include the fuel cost of the actual fuel burned, as documented by an invoice or equivalent document, up to 120% of the fuel quantity calculated based on verifiable cost data.  If due to extraordinary circumstances the fuel burned exceeded 120% of the fuel quantity calculated based on verifiable cost data, the QSE may submit an attestation attesting to the accuracy of the fuel data along with an explanation for the higher fuel quantities.  ERCOT may include the cost of this additional fuel in the adjustment to the RUC Guarantee.  The QSE must provide documentation (invoices or contracts, as applicable) that identifies intra-day, same-day, or spot market costs of natural gas consumed during the RUC-Committed Interval.  Such documentation is necessary to justify recovery of natural gas costs, which is limited to the actual fuel amount (MMBtus) consumed during RUC-Committed Intervals.  All documentation submitted by the QSE for natural gas costs incurred intra-day, same-day, or via spot market must show a nexus from the seller or distributor of natural gas products to the QSE, Resource Entity or Generation Entity as the ultimate buyer.  The QSE must demonstrate that the seller or distributor has procured natural gas fuel intra-day, same-day, or via spot market.  A Power Purchase or Tolling Agreement (PPA) filed as documentation of proof of fuel costs will not be accepted unless the PPA was signed prior to July 16, 2008, and is not between Affiliates, subsidiaries, or partners.
(2)	If the QSE submitting a Settlement dispute under paragraph (1) above, or the Resource Entity for the Resource, has an executed and enforceable transportation contract (together with any associated statement of operating conditions), on an interstate or intrastate pipeline, for the Generation Resource that received the RUC instruction, the QSE must show proof that the QSE or Resource Entity (or another entity acting on behalf of the Resource Entity with respect to fuel procurement) purchased and nominated fuel in sufficient quantities to start and operate the Resource at its Low Sustained Limit (LSL) during the RUC-Committed Intervals. 
(3)	The QSE or Resource Entity must purchase and nominate fuel as described in paragraph (2) above unless one or more of the conditions below applies:
(a)	The Resource received an initial RUC instruction for less than 12 contiguous hours within the same gas delivery day;
(b)	The QSE or Resource Entity did not have sufficient time to procure and nominate fuel after receiving the RUC instruction;
(c)	The RUC instruction was instructed outside of Business Hours or otherwise at a time when the Resource was unable to procure fuel.  
(4)	If the QSE or Resource Entity did not or was not able to nominate fuel for the RUC-Committed Intervals, ERCOT may require proof that following a reasonable effort to secure fuel, the QSE or Resource Entity was not able to both purchase and nominate fuel for reasons beyond the QSE’s or Resource Entity’s control, or that nominating such fuel would have resulted in higher overall fuel costs.  ERCOT may require an attestation signed by an officer or executive with authority to bind the QSE stating that the information contained in the dispute is accurate and that the costs included are variable based on the dispatch of the Resource, to the best of knowledge and belief. 
(a)	A QSE or Resource Entity is not required to procure and nominate fuel after the initial RUC instruction for incremental RUC instructed hours unless the extended RUC instruction individually meets the requirements under paragraphs (2) and (3) above.
(5)	Notwithstanding the provision in paragraph (1) above, the cost of fuel may also include penalties for fuel delivery outside of RUC-Committed Intervals in accordance with the ratable delivery obligations and costs as specified in the enforceable transportation agreement.  In addition, if the QSE or Resource Entity (or another entity acting on behalf of the Resource with respect to fuel procurement) has purchased sufficient fuel quantities to start and operate the Resource at its LSL during the RUC-Committed Intervals and is eligible to receive a Startup Cost, as described in Section 5.6.2, RUC Startup Cost Eligibility, or Section 5.6.3, Forced Outage of a RUC-Committed Resource, but trips Off-Line, the QSE is eligible to recover associated fuel penalties incurred through the end of the gas day, including the net cost of fuel that was purchased and nominated for the gas delivery day to operate the Resource at LSL for the RUC-Instructed hours, but was not used.  A QSE or Resource Entity shall make a commercially reasonable effort to sell the fuel that was not used and shall provide the residual value for any fuel not used or sold.
(6)	If the actual price paid for the delivered fuel oil used to replace oil consumed during a RUC-Committed Interval is greater than Fuel Oil Price (FOP) adjusted by the proxy fuel adder, X, defined in the Verifiable Cost Manual (i.e., FOP * (1+X)), then the QSE may file a Settlement dispute for the Resource’s RUC Make-Whole Payment.  The maximum amount that may be recovered through this dispute process is the difference between the RUC Guarantee based on the actual price paid and the adjusted price, FOP * (1+X).  
(7)	If the QSE representing the Generation Resource made a Three-Part Supply Offer into the DAM based on FIP and had to run on fuel oil in a RUC-Committed Hour with an active Three-Part Supply Offer based on the adjusted FIP, the QSE may file a Settlement dispute to recover the difference between the RUC Guarantee based actual price paid for delivered fuel oil and the fuel price of FIP * (1+X).  
(8)	When filing a Settlement dispute under paragraph (6) or (7) above, the QSE must provide documentation (invoices) that identifies purchases of fuel oil by the QSE, Resource Entity, or Generation Entity to replace oil consumed for a RUC-Committed Interval.  In addition, the QSE must provide proof that the Resource actually consumed fuel oil during the RUC-Committed Interval.  Proof of actual consumption may be based on the Resource’s technical specifications or flow meters as appropriate.  Documentation of fuel oil purchases must show that these were made no later than seven Business Days after the end of the last consecutive RUC-Committed Interval.  Replacement fuel oil costs are limited to the actual gallons/barrels of fuel oil consumed during RUC-Committed Intervals.
(9)	ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, consider documentation types other than those specifically listed in paragraphs (1) and (8) above when offered by a QSE in support of its recovery of fuel costs for RUC deployments.  For example, ERCOT may require the Resource input-output equation or average heat rate curve that allows for verification of fuel consumption for operation at and above LSL.
(10)	When calculating the RUC Guarantee as described in paragraph (1), (6) or (7) above, the Startup Price per start (SUPR) and the Minimum-Energy Price (MEPR), as defined in paragraph (6) of Section 5.7.1.1, RUC Guarantee, will be set to the Startup Cap (SUCAP) and Minimum-Energy Cap (MECAP), respectively, utilizing the actual fuel price paid.
(11)	In order to recover fuel costs above LSL for a RUC-Committed Interval, the QSE must also submit proof of the volume-weighted average actual price paid for fuel consumed by the Resource during a RUC-Committed Interval for generation above LSL.  ERCOT will adjust the RUC Guarantee (RUCG) to include the additional fuel costs above LSL filed by the QSE.
[NPRR1140: Replace paragraph (11) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(11)	In order to recover fuel costs above LSL for a RUC-Committed Interval, the QSE must also submit proof of the volume-weighted average actual price paid for fuel consumed by the Resource during a RUC-Committed Interval for generation above LSL.  
9.14.8	Disputes for Settlement Application of Integrated Telemetry for Split Generation Resources
(1)	Settlement and billing disputes related to application of integrated Real-Time telemetry of MW or MVAr from a Generation Resource that has been split to function as two or more Split Generation Resources require a signed affidavit by all QSEs representing associated Split Generation Resources.  Data values submitted with the affidavit must be integrated to the applicable Settlement Interval format related to the Settlement and billing charge type in dispute.
9.14.9	Incremental Fuel Costs for Switchable Generation Make-Whole Payment Disputes 
(1)	For the purposes of any Settlement and billing dispute submitted pursuant to paragraph (1)(c) of Section 6.6.12, Make-Whole Payment for Switchable Generation Resources Committed for Energy Emergency Alert (EEA), if the actual price paid for delivered natural gas for a specific Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) for an instructed hour is greater than FIP plus the fuel adder, then the QSE may recover the fuel costs incurred for that SWGR in the Settlement and billing dispute.  The QSE must provide documentation (invoices) that identifies intra-day costs of natural gas consumed.  All documentation submitted by the QSE for natural gas costs incurred intra-day must show a nexus from the seller or distributor of natural gas products to the QSE, Resource Entity or Generation Entity as the ultimate buyer.  The QSE must demonstrate that the seller or distributor has procured natural gas fuel intra-day.  
(2)	For the purposes of any Settlement and billing dispute submitted pursuant to paragraph (1)(c) of Section 6.6.12, if the actual price paid for the delivered fuel oil used to replace oil consumed for an instructed hour is greater than FOP plus the fuel adder, then the QSE may recover the fuel costs incurred for that SWGR in the dispute.  The QSE must provide documentation that identifies purchases of fuel oil by the QSE, Resource Entity, or Generation Entity to replace oil consumed.  In addition, the QSE must provide proof that the SWGR actually consumed fuel oil for the instructed hour.  Proof of actual consumption may be based on the Resource’s technical specifications or flow meters as appropriate.  Documentation of fuel oil purchases must show that these were made no later than seven Business Days after the end of the last consecutive instructed hour. 
(3)	A QSE submitting documents for the recovery of RUC-related fuel costs other than those specifically discussed in paragraph (1) or (2) above must request to have such documents approved by the ERCOT Board during an Executive Session at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the ERCOT Board.  If the ERCOT Board approves the inclusion of such documentation as proof of fuel purchases, the QSE must file an NPRR in accordance with Section 21, Revision Request Process, to add this category of documentation to the process for approval of Switchable Generation Make-Whole Payments.
9.14.10	Settlement for Market Participants Impacted by Omitted Procedures or Manual Actions to Resolve the DAM 
(1)	A Market Participant that has been directly impacted by an action or omission by ERCOT to resolve the DAM, as described in paragraph (4) of Section 4.1.2, Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations, may seek recovery by filing a Settlement and billing dispute as defined in Section 9.14.  Where ERCOT determines that the Market Participant seeking recovery has been directly impacted by such ERCOT action or omission, the following provisions apply:
(a)	No resettlement of the DAM will occur as a result of a Market Participant’s recovery under this Section;
(b)	Where a Market Participant’s submissions were not cleared in the DAM, ERCOT will establish a set of DAM Energy Bids, DAM Energy Offers, Ancillary Service Offers, and Point-to-Point (PTP) bids that would have cleared given the settled prices of the DAM;
[NPRR1245:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	Where a Market Participant’s submissions were not cleared in the DAM, ERCOT will establish a set of DAM Energy Bids, DAM Energy Offers, Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers, Ancillary Service Only Offers, and Point-to-Point (PTP) bids that would have cleared given the settled prices of the DAM;

[NPRR1188:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	Where a Market Participant’s submissions were not cleared in the DAM, ERCOT will establish a set of DAM Energy Bids, DAM Energy Offers, Ancillary Service Offers, Energy Bid Curves, and Point-to-Point (PTP) bids that would have cleared given the settled prices of the DAM;
(c)	Startup Costs and minimum energy costs will not be considered for recovery;
(d)	For linked offers of energy and Ancillary Services, the available capacity will be allocated to the offers that would have created the greatest value for the Market Participant seeking recovery;
(e)	All impacted positions will be summed based on their positive or negative value with respect to Real-Time prices;
Day-Ahead Energy Sales Impact
DAMSQSEAMT q = (-1) *    ((DASPP p – RTSPP p) * (1/4)* DAES q, p)
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Impact
DAMPQSEAMT q = (-1) *   ((RTSPP p – DASPP p) * (1/4)* DAEP q, p)
Day-Ahead Ancillary Services Sales Impact
DAMASQSEAMT q = (-1) *   (((MCPCRU DAM – RUOPR q, r, DAM) * PCRUR q, r, DAM) 
+ ((MCPCRD DAM – RDOPR q, r, DAM) * PCRDR q, r, DAM)
+ ((MCPCRR DAM – RROPR q, r, DAM) * PCRRR q, r, DAM)  
+ ((MCPCECR DAM – ECRSOPR q, r, DAM) * PCECRR q, r, DAM)
+ ((MCPCNS DAM – NSOPR q, r, DAM) * PCNSR q, r, DAM))
Day-Ahead Point-to-Point Obligation Impact
DAMRTPTPQSEAMT q = (-1) *     ((RTOBLPR (j, k) – DAOBLPR (j, k)) * RTOBL q, (j, k))
Where:
RTOBLPR (j, k)   =  (RTSPP (k,i) – RTSPP (j,i )) / 4
DAOBLPR (j, k)  =  DASPP k – DASPP j
[NPRR1245:  Replace paragraph (e) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(e)	All impacted positions will be summed based on their positive or negative value with respect to Real-Time prices;
Day-Ahead Energy Sales Impact
DAMSQSEAMT q = (-1) *    ((DASPP p – RTSPP p) * (1/4)* DAES q, p)
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase Impact
DAMPQSEAMT q = (-1) *   ((RTSPP p – DASPP p) * (1/4)* DAEP q, p)
Day-Ahead Ancillary Services Sales Impact
DAMASQSEAMT q = (-1) *   (((MCPCRU DAM – RTMCPCRU) * (1/4) * PCRUR q, r, DAM) 
+ ((MCPCRD DAM – RTMCPCRD) * (1/4) * PCRDR q, r, DAM)
+ ((MCPCRR DAM – RTMCPCRR) * (1/4) * PCRRR q, r, DAM)  
+ ((MCPCECR DAM – RTMCPCECR) * (1/4) * PCECRR q, r, DAM)
+ ((MCPCNS DAM – RTMCPCNS) * (1/4) * PCNSR q, r, DAM)
+ ((MCPCRU DAM – RTMCPCRU) * (1/4) * DARUOAWD q)
+ ((MCPCRD DAM – RTMCPCRD) *(1/4) *  DARDOAWD q)
+ ((MCPCRR DAM – RTMCPCRR) * (1/4) * DARROAWD q)
+ ((MCPCECR DAM – RTMCPCECR) * (1/4) * DAECROAWD q)
+ ((MCPCNS DAM – RTMCPCNS) * (1/4) * DANSOAWD q))
Day-Ahead Point-to-Point Obligation Impact
DAMRTPTPQSEAMT q = (-1) *     ((RTOBLPR (j, k) – DAOBLPR (j, k)) * RTOBL q, (j, k))
Where:
RTOBLPR (j, k)   =  (RTSPP (k,i) – RTSPP (j,i )) / 4
DAOBLPR (j, k)  =  DASPP k – DASPP j
(f)	If any RUC short charges occur for any Operating Hour involved in a Market Participant’s recovery under this Section, ERCOT will evaluate the Market Participant’s revised position to determine if the Market Participant is entitled to a refund, or should be charged for RUC short charge;
(g)	Any resulting charge or payment to the Market Participant will be invoiced using a miscellaneous Invoice, but allocated with the method outlined in paragraphs (2) through (4) of Section 9.19.1, Default Uplift Invoices.
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DAMSQSEAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Market Energy Sales Amount by QSE—The sum of the DAM Energy Sales positions compared to Real-Time results, for the QSE q, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  
DAMPQSEAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Market Energy Purchases Amount by QSE—The sum of the DAM Energy purchases compared to Real-Time results, for the QSE q, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  
DAMASQSEAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Market Ancillary Service Amount by QSE—The sum of the DAM Ancillary Service awarded amounts compared to Real-Time results, for the QSE q, for the hour. 
[NPRR1245:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Day-Ahead Market Ancillary Service Amount by QSE—The sum of the DAM Ancillary Service awarded amounts compared to Real-Time results, for the QSE q, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.

DAMRTPTPQSEAMT q	$	Day-Ahead Market Real-Time Point-to-Point Obligation Amount by QSE—The sum of the PTP Obligation bids cleared in the DAM compared to Real-Time results, for the QSE q, for the hour.  
DASPP p	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price per Settlement Point—The DAM Settlement Point Price at Settlement Point p, for the hour.
RTOBL q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time Obligation per QSE per pair of source and sink—The total MW of QSE q’s PTP Obligation bids that would have cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j, and the sink k, for the hour.
RTSPP p	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price—The Real-Time Settlement Point Price at the Settlement Point for the 15-minute Settlement Interval within the hour.
DAES q, p	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale per QSE per Settlement PointThe total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s Three-Part Supply Offers that would have cleared in the DAM and DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves that would have cleared in the DAM at Settlement Point p, for the hour.
DAEP q, p	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per QSE per Settlement PointThe total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s DAM Energy Bids that would have cleared at Settlement Point p, for the hour.
[NPRR1188:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per QSE per Settlement PointThe total amount of energy represented by QSE q’s DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves that would have cleared in the DAM at Settlement Point p, for the hour.

PCRUR q, r, DAM 	MW	Procured Capacity for Regulation Up from Resource per QSE per Resource in DAM—The Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up) capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r, for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
PCRDR q, r, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Regulation Down from Resource per QSE per Resource in DAM—The Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down) capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r, for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
PCRRR q, r, DAM 	MW	Procured Capacity for Responsive Reserve from Resource per QSE per Resource in DAM—The Responsive Reserve (RRS) capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r, for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
PCNSR q, r, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for Non-Spinning Reserve from Resource per QSE per Resource in DAM—The Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r, for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
PCECRR q, r, DAM	MW	Procured Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service from Resource per QSE per Resource in DAM—The ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for Resource r, for the hour.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1245:  Insert the following variables upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
DARUOAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Only Award per QSE—The Reg-Up Only capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for the hour.
DARDOAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Only Award per QSE—The Reg-Down Only capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for the hour.
DARROAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Only Award per QSE—The RRS Only capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for the hour.
DANSOAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Only Award per QSE—The Non-Spin Only capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for the hour.
DAECROAWD q	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Only Award per QSE—The ECRS Only capacity quantity that would have been awarded to QSE q in the DAM for the hour.


RUOPR q, r, DAM
	$/MW per hour	Regulation Up Offer Price—The offer price for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the impacted Reg-Up Ancillary Service Offers.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RDOPR q, r, DAM	$/MW per hour	Regulation Down Offer Price—The offer price for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the impacted Reg-Down Ancillary Service Offers.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
RROPR q, r, DAM	$/MW per hour	Responsive Reserve Offer Price—The offer price for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the impacted RRS Ancillary Service Offers.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
ECRSOPR q, r, DAM	$/MW per hour	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Offer Price—The offer price for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the impacted ECRS Ancillary Service Offers.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
NSOPR q, r, DAM	$/MW per hour	Non-Spinning Reserve Offer Price—The offer price for Resource r represented by QSE q, for the impacted Non-Spin Ancillary Service Offers.  Where for a Combined Cycle Train, the Resource r is a Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combined Cycle Train.
[NPRR1245:  Delete the variables “RUOPR q, r, DAM”, “RDOPR q, r, DAM”, “RROPR q, r, DAM”, “ECRSOPR q, r, DAM”, and “NSOPR q, r, DAM” above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]

MCPCRU DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Regulation Up in DAM—The DAM Market Clearing Price for Capacity (MCPC) for Reg-Up, for the hour.
MCPCRD DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Regulation Down in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Reg-Down, for the hour.
MCPCRR DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Responsive Reserve in DAM—The DAM MCPC for RRS, for the hour.
MCPCNS DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Non-Spinning Reserve in DAM—The DAM MCPC for Non-Spin, for the hour.
MCPCECR DAM	$/MW per hour	Market Clearing Price for Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service in DAM—The DAM MCPC for ECRS, for the hour.
[NPRR1245:  Insert the following variables upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
RTMCPCRU 	$/MW	Real-Time Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Reg-Up—The Real-Time MCPC for Reg-Up for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTMCPCRD	$/MW	Real-Time Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Reg-Down—The Real-Time MCPC for Reg-Down for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTMCPCRR
	$/MW	Real-Time Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Responsive Reserve—The Real-Time MCPC for RRS for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTMCPCNS	$/MW	Real-Time Market Clearing Price for Capacity for Non-Spin—The Real-Time MCPC for Non-Spin for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTMCPCECR	$/MW	Real-Time Market Clearing Price for Capacity for ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service—The Real-Time MCPC for ECRS for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.


DAOBLPR (j, k)	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Obligation Price per pair of source and sinkThe DAM clearing price of a PTP Obligation bid with the source j, and the sink k, for the hour.
RTOBLPR (j, k)   	$/MWh	Real-Time Obligation Price per pair of source and sinkThe Real-Time calculated price of a PTP Obligation bid with the source j, and the sink k, for the 15 minute period.
[NPRR1245:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Real-Time Obligation Price per pair of source and sinkThe Real-Time calculated price of a PTP Obligation bid, with the source j and the sink k, for the hour.

q	none	A QSE.
r	none	A Resource.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
9.15	Settlement Charges
(1)	The calculations to be used for Settlement charges are contained in Section 4, Day-Ahead Operations, Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment, Section 6, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations, Section 7, Congestion Revenue Rights, and Section 9, Settlement and Billing.  
9.15.1	Charge Type Matrix	
(1)	ERCOT shall post a Charge Type Matrix on the ERCOT website that summarizes each Charge Type by variable name used in the Protocols, description, and Protocol section number reference.  ERCOT post changes to this Charge Type Matrix at least ten days before implementation of change.  
9.16	ERCOT System Administration and User Fees	
9.16.1	ERCOT System Administration Fee
(1)	The Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) has authorized ERCOT to charge the ERCOT System Administration fee to fund ERCOT’s budget.  ERCOT converts the fee into a charge to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) using the formula set forth in paragraph (3) below.
(2)	ERCOT shall post the ERCOT System Administration fee on the ERCOT website.  Within two Business Days following PUCT approval of a change in the ERCOT System Administration fee, ERCOT shall post the changed fee and effective date on the ERCOT website.
(3)	Each QSE shall pay the ERCOT System Administration fee.  The ERCOT System Administration fee is for each 15-minute Settlement Interval for each QSE.
ESACAMT q	=		LAFF * max(0, RTAML q, p)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
ESACAMT q	$	ERCOT System Administration Fee—The ERCOT System Administration fee for each QSE per 15-minute Settlement Interval.
RTAML q, p	MWh	Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load— The sum of the Adjusted Metered Load (AML) at the Electrical Buses included in Settlement Point p, represented by QSE q, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.
LAFF	$/MWh	Load Administration Fee Factor—The ERCOT System Administration fee.
q	none	A QSE.
p	none	A Settlement Point.  The summation is over all of the Settlement Points.
9.16.2	User Fees
(1)	The ERCOT Board approves user fees for products and services provided by ERCOT to a Market Participant or other Entity.  Such user fees are approved in accordance with the ERCOT Board Policies and Procedures.  User fees may include, but are not limited to, application fees, private Wide Area Network (WAN) costs, and interconnection study fees.  
(2)	ERCOT shall post user fees approved by the ERCOT Board in the ERCOT Fee Schedule on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT shall post the ERCOT Fee Schedule and effective date on the ERCOT website within two Business Days of change. 
(3)	A Market Participant or other Entity shall pay applicable user fees approved by the ERCOT Board.
9.17	Transmission Billing Determinant Calculation
(1)	ERCOT shall provide Market Participants with the key parameters and formula components required by a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) in determining the billing charges for the use of its Transmission Facilities or Distribution Facilities (“Transmission Billing Determinants”).  ERCOT is not responsible for billing, collection, or disbursal of payments associated with transmission access service.
9.17.1	Billing Determinant Data Elements
(1)	ERCOT shall calculate and provide to Market Participants on the ERCOT website the following data elements annually to be used by TSPs and DSPs as billing determinants for transmission access service.  This data must be provided by December 1 of each year.  This calculation must be made under the requirements of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.192, Transmission Service Rates.  ERCOT shall use the most recent aggregate data produced by the ERCOT Settlement system to perform these calculations.
(a)	The 4-Coincident Peak (4-CP) for each DSP and External Load Serving Entity (ELSE), as applicable;
(b)	The ERCOT average 4-CP;
(c)	The average 4-CP for each DSP and ELSE, as applicable, coincident to the ERCOT average 4-CP.
(2)	ERCOT average 4-CP is defined as the average of the coincidental MW peaks occurring during the months of June, July, August, and September.
(3)	Coincidental MW peak is defined as the highest monthly Settlement Interval 15-minute MW peak for the entire ERCOT Transmission Grid as calculated per the following formula:  The sum of all net energy produced by Generation Resources + Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) + Block Load Transfers (BLTs) from ERCOT to another Control Area that have been registered for Settlement purposes + actual Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) imports - BLTs to ERCOT from another Control Area that are not reflected in a Non-Opt-In Entity’s (NOIE’s) Load - actual DC Tie exports - Wholesale Storage Load (WSL).
[NPRR995, NPRR1188, and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995 or NPRR1188; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(3)	Coincidental MW peak is defined as the highest monthly Settlement Interval 15-minute MW peak for the entire ERCOT Transmission Grid as calculated per the following formula:  The sum of all net energy produced by Generation Resources + Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) + Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) + Settlement Only Energy Storage Systems (SOESSs) + Block Load Transfers (BLTs) from ERCOT to another Control Area that have been registered for Settlement purposes + actual Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) imports - BLTs to ERCOT from another Control Area that are not reflected in a Non-Opt-In Entity’s (NOIE’s) Load - actual DC Tie exports - Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) – portion of Controllable Load Resource (CLR) Load (that is not an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR)) as well as Non-WSL charging Load supplied by co-located generation at sites with net metering arrangement.
(4)	Any difference between the coincidental MW peak (converted to MWh) and the ERCOT Settlement volumes, excluding DC Tie exports, BLTs to ERCOT from another Control Area that are not reflected in a NOIE’s Load, and WSL, shall be allocated amongst all DSPs and ELSEs that are included in the ERCOT 4-CP Report on a pro rata basis as per the formula below:
LTDSP_4CP tdsp = (PLTDSP4CPLRS tdsp * NLADJ) + PLTDSP4CP tdsp
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LTDSP_4CP tdsp	MWh	Load by TDSP for 4-CP - The load for each DSP and ELSE coincident to the coincidental MW peak adjusted for NLADJ
PLTDSP4CPLRS tdsp	%	Preliminary Load by TDSP for 4-CP Load Ratio Share - The Load Ratio Share (LRS) for each DSP and ELSE coincident to the coincidental MW peak prior to adjusting for NLADJ
NLADJ	MWh	Native Load Adjustment - The difference between the coincidental MW peak (converted to MWh) and the ERCOT settlement volumes, excluding DC Tie exports, BLTs to ERCOT from another Control Area that are not reflected in a NOIE’s Load, and WSL
PLTDSP4CP tdsp	MWh	Preliminary Load by TDSP for 4CP - The Load for each DSP and ELSE coincident to the coincidental MW peak prior to adjusting for NLADJ
tdsp	None	A DSP or ELSE

[NPRR1188:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	Any difference between the coincidental MW peak (converted to MWh) and the ERCOT Settlement volumes, excluding DC Tie exports, BLTs to ERCOT from another Control Area that are not reflected in a NOIE’s Load, portion of CLR Load (that is not an ALR) as well as Non-WSL charging Load supplied by co-located generation at sites with net metering arrangement, and WSL, shall be allocated amongst all DSPs and ELSEs that are included in the ERCOT 4-CP Report on a pro rata basis as per the formula below:
LTDSP_4CP tdsp = (PLTDSP4CPLRS tdsp * NLADJ) + PLTDSP4CP tdsp
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LTDSP_4CP tdsp	MWh	Load by TDSP for 4-CP - The load for each DSP and ELSE coincident to the coincidental MW peak adjusted for NLADJ
PLTDSP4CPLRS tdsp	%	Preliminary Load by TDSP for 4-CP Load Ratio Share - The Load Ratio Share (LRS) for each DSP and ELSE coincident to the coincidental MW peak prior to adjusting for NLADJ
NLADJ	MWh	Native Load Adjustment - The difference between the coincidental MW peak (converted to MWh) and the ERCOT settlement volumes, excluding DC Tie exports, BLTs to ERCOT from another Control Area that are not reflected in a NOIE’s Load, portion of CLR Load that is not an ALR as well as Non-WSL charging Load supplied by co-located generation at sites with net metering arrangement, and WSL.
PLTDSP4CP tdsp	MWh	Preliminary Load by TDSP for 4CP - The Load for each DSP and ELSE coincident to the coincidental MW peak prior to adjusting for NLADJ
tdsp	None	A DSP or ELSE

9.17.2	Direct Current Tie Schedule Information
(1)	Within ten Business Days of receipt of a request by a TSP or DSP for data pertaining to transactions over the DC Ties for the immediately preceding month, ERCOT shall provide the following Electronic Tag (e-Tag) data:
(a)	Tagging identifier (Tag Code);
(b)	Date of transaction; 
(c)	Megawatt-hours (MWh) actually transferred;
(d)	Sending Generation Control Area (GCA);
(e)	Receiving Load Control Area (LCA);
(f)	Purchasing / Scheduling Entity (PSE);
(g)	Entity scheduling the export of power over a DC Tie; and
(h)	Status of Transaction (Implement, Withdrawn, Cancelled, Conditional, etc.).
(2)	ERCOT shall maintain and provide the requesting TSP or DSP data pertaining to transactions over the DC Ties for the period from June 2001 to the present.  For each transaction, the same data as specified in paragraph (1) above, must be provided.
9.18	Profile Development Cost Recovery Fee for Non-ERCOT Sponsored Load Profile Segment
(1)	Paragraph (e)(3) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.131, Load Profiling and Load Research, requires that ERCOT establish and implement a process to collect a fee from any Retail Electric Provider (REP) who seeks to assign customers to a non-ERCOT sponsored profile segment.  The process must include a method for other REPs who use the profile segment to compensate the original requestor of the new profile segment and for ERCOT to notify Distribution Service Providers (DSPs) which REPs are authorized to use the new profile segment.  This profile development cost recovery fee is overseen by ERCOT.
(2)	Within 30 days after a profile segment receives final approval from ERCOT, the requestor shall submit to ERCOT documentation of the costs it incurred in developing the profile segment change request.  All such documentation must be available for review by any Market Participant.  Any costs submitted more than 30 days after approval of the profile segment will not be recoverable.  Recoverable costs must be directly attributable to the creation of the profile segment change request, incurred no earlier than 24 months preceding the original submission date of the profile segment change request, and must be further limited to:
(a)	Costs for Load research as paid to DSPs or ERCOT, documented by a copy of all DSP or ERCOT Invoices or other evidence of payment, including but not limited to:
(i)	Buying and installing Interval Data Recorders (IDRs);
(ii)	Installing communication equipment such as phone lines or cell phones; and
(iii)	Reading the meters and translating the data.
(b)	Reasonable costs paid to third parties, including a copy of all third-party invoices or other documentary evidence of payment, including:
(i)	Defining the request, such as identifying population, profile, data, etc.;
(ii)	Preparing the request, such as collecting and analyzing data and presenting the case; and
(iii)	Undertaking the review process such as meeting with ERCOT, Profiling Working Group (PWG), Retail Market Subcommittee (RMS), Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), and the ERCOT Board.
(c)	Requestor’s reasonable internal documented costs itemizing all persons, hours, and other expenses associated with developing the request per paragraphs (1) and (2) above.
(3)	Within 60 days after ERCOT approves a profile segment, ERCOT shall evaluate the costs submitted and shall disallow any costs not meeting these criteria.  The remaining costs must comprise the total reimbursable cost.  Within the same 60-day period, ERCOT shall post a report on the ERCOT website summarizing the allowed expenses by paragraphs (1) and (2) above.  If a Market Participant, including the requestor, disagrees with the ERCOT determination with respect to the total reimbursable cost, the Market Participant may submit a dispute as outlined in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.  No disputes may be submitted after 45 days from posting of the total reimbursable cost to the ERCOT website. 
(4)	The fee is calculated as follows:
If a REP is the requestor, then:  FEE = $C / n
If the requestor is not a REP, then:
FEE = $C / (n + 1)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Definition
n	The number of REPs subscribing to the profile segment
$C	The total reimbursable cost
(5)	The fee must be paid by each successive subscribing REP to the requestor and any previous subscribing REPs per instructions and validation by ERCOT.  As additional REPs subscribe to the profile segment, the fee is recalculated and reallocated equally among all subscribing REPs and the requestor, if the requestor is not a REP.
(6)	Beginning four years after the date on which the profile segment becomes available for Settlement, any REP may request assignment of Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) to the profile segment without being assessed the profile development cost recovery fee.
9.19	Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients
(1)	If at least one Invoice Recipient owing funds does not pay its Settlement Invoice in full (short-pay), ERCOT shall follow the procedure set forth below:
(a)	ERCOT shall make every reasonable attempt to collect payment from each short-paying Invoice Recipient prior to four hours preceding the close of the Bank Business Day Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on the day that payments by ERCOT are due to be paid to applicable Invoice Recipient(s). 
(b)	ERCOT shall draw on any available Financial Security pledged to ERCOT by each short-paying Invoice Recipient that did not pay the amount due under paragraph (a) above.  If the amount of any such draw is greater than the amount of the short-paying Invoice Recipient’s cash collateral held in excess of that required to cover its Total Potential Exposure (TPE) (“Excess Collateral”), then a draw on available security for a short-paying Invoice Recipient shall be considered a Late Payment for purposes of Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants.  ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, hold up to 5% of Financial Security of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and use those funds to pay subsequent Settlement Invoices as they become due.  Any funds still held will be applied to unpaid Invoices in conjunction with the default uplift process outlined in Section 9.19.1, Default Uplift Invoices.
(c)	ERCOT shall offset or recoup any amounts owed, or to be owed, by ERCOT to a short-paying Invoice Recipient against amounts not paid by that Invoice Recipient, and ERCOT shall apply the amount offset or recouped to cover short pays by that Invoice Recipient.  ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, hold credit Invoices and use those funds to pay subsequent Settlement Invoices as they become due.  Any funds still held will be offset or recouped against unpaid Invoices in conjunction with the default uplift process outlined in Section 9.19.1.
(d)	If, after taking the actions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, ERCOT still does not have sufficient funds to pay all amounts that it owes to Settlement Invoice Recipients in full, ERCOT shall deduct any applicable administrative fees as specified in Section 9.16, ERCOT System Administration and User Fees, payments for Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Services, and the Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Balancing Account (CRRBA) from the amount received or collected and then reduce payments to all Settlement Invoice Recipients owed monies from ERCOT.  The reductions must be based on a pro rata basis of monies owed to each Settlement Invoice Recipient, to the extent necessary to clear ERCOT’s accounts on the payment due date to achieve revenue neutrality for ERCOT.  ERCOT shall provide to all Market Participants payment details on all short pays and subsequent reimbursements of short pays.  Details must include the identity of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and the dollar amount attributable to that Invoice Recipient, broken down by Invoice numbers.  In addition, ERCOT shall provide the aggregate total of all amounts due to all Invoice Recipients before applying the amount not paid on the Settlement Invoice.
(e)	If sufficient funds continue to be unavailable for ERCOT to pay all amounts in full to short-paid Entities for that Settlement Invoice and the short-paying Entity is not complying with a payment plan designed to enable ERCOT to pay all amounts in full to short-paid Entities, ERCOT shall uplift short-paid amounts through the Default Uplift process described below in Section 9.19.1 and Section 9.19.2, Payment Process for Default Uplift Invoices.
(f)	When ERCOT enters into a payment plan with a short-pay Invoice Recipient, ERCOT shall post to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area:
(i)	The short-pay plan;
(ii)	The schedule of quantifiable expected payments, updated if and when modifications are made to the payment schedule; and
(iii)	Invoice dates to which the payments will be applied.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (f) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(f)	When ERCOT enters into a payment plan with a short-pay Invoice Recipient, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website:
(i)	The short-pay plan;
(ii)	The schedule of quantifiable expected payments, updated if and when modifications are made to the payment schedule; and
(iii)	Invoice dates to which the payments will be applied.
(g)	To the extent ERCOT is able to collect past due funds owed by a short-paying Invoice Recipient before the default uplift process defined in Section 9.19.1, ERCOT shall allocate the collected funds to the earliest short-paid Invoice for that short-paying Invoice Recipient.  ERCOT shall use its best efforts to distribute collected funds quarterly by the 15th Business Day following the end of a calendar quarter for a short paying Entity when the cumulative amount of undistributed funds held exceed $50,000 on a pro rata basis of monies owed.  Subsequently collected funds that have not previously been distributed will be applied against unpaid Invoices in conjunction with the uplift process outlined in Section 9.19.1. 
(h)	To the extent ERCOT is able to collect past due funds owed by a short-paying Invoice Recipient, after the default uplift process defined in Section 9.19.1, ERCOT shall allocate the collected funds using the same allocation method as in the default uplift process.  ERCOT shall use its best efforts to distribute subsequently collected funds quarterly by the 15th Business Day following the end of a calendar quarter for a short paying Entity when the cumulative amount of undistributed funds held exceed $50,000.
9.19.1	Default Uplift Invoices
(1)	ERCOT shall collect the total short-pay amount for all Settlement Invoices for a month, less the total payments expected from a payment plan, from Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) and CRR Account Holders.  ERCOT must pay the funds it collects from payments on Default Uplift Invoices to the Entities previously short-paid.  ERCOT shall notify those Entities of the details of the payment.
(2)	Each Counter-Party’s share of the uplift is calculated using the best available Settlement data for each Operating Day in the month prior to the month in which the default occurred (the “reference month”), and is calculated as follows:
DURSCPcp = TSPA * MMARScp
Where:
MMARS cp = MMA cp / MMATOT
MMA cp = Max { ∑mp (URTMG mp + URTDCIMP mp + USOGTOT mp), 
∑mp (URTAML mp + UWSLTOT mp), 
∑mp URTQQES mp, 
∑mp URTQQEP mp, 
∑mp UDAES mp, 
∑mp UDAEP mp,
∑mp (URTOBL mp + URTOBLLO mp), 
∑mp (UDAOPT mp + UDAOBL mp + UOPTS mp + UOBLS mp), 
∑mp (UOPTP mp + UOBLP mp)}
[NPRR995, NPRR1012, and NPRR1201:  Replace applicable portions of the formula “MMA cp” above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995 or NPRR1201; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1012:]
MMA cp = Max { ∑mp (URTMG mp + URTDCIMP mp + USOGTOT mp), 
∑mp (URTAML mp + UWSLTOT mp + USOCLTOT mp), 
∑mp URTQQES mp, 
∑mp URTQQEP mp, 
∑mp UDAES mp, 
∑mp UDAEP mp,
∑mp (URTOBL mp + URTOBLLO mp), 
∑mp (UDAOPT mp + UDAOBL mp), 
∑mp UDAASOAWD mp}
MMATOT = ∑cp (MMAcp)
Where:
URTMG mp = ∑p, r, i (RTMG mp, p, r, i), excluding RTMG for RMR Resources and RTMG in Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-Committed Intervals for RUC-committed Resources
URTDCIMP mp = ∑p, i (RTDCIMP mp, p, i) / 4
URTAML mp = max(0,∑p, i (RTAML mp, p, i))
URTQQES mp = ∑p, i (RTQQES mp, p, i) / 4
URTQQEP mp = ∑p, i (RTQQEP mp, p, i) / 4
UDAES mp = ∑p, h (DAES mp, p, h)
UDAEP mp = ∑p, h (DAEP mp, p, h)
URTOBL mp = ∑(j, k), h (RTOBL mp, (j, k), h)
URTOBLLO mp = ∑(j, k), h (RTOBLLO mp, (j, k), h)
UDAOPT mp = ∑(j, k), h (DAOPT mp, (j, k), h)
UDAOBL mp = ∑(j, k), h (DAOBL mp, (j, k), h)
UOPTS mp = ∑(j, k), h (OPTS mp, (j, k), h) 
UOBLS mp = ∑(j, k), h (OBLS mp, (j, k), h)
UOPTP mp = ∑(j, k), h (OPTP mp, j, h)
UOBLP mp = ∑(j, k), h (OBLP mp, (j, k), h)
[NPRR1201:  Delete the formulas “UOPTS mp”, “UOBLS mp”, “UOPTP mp”, and “UOBLP mp” above upon system implementation.]
UWSLTOT mp = (-1) * ∑r, b (MEBL mp, r, b)
[NPRR1012:  Insert the formula “UDAASOAWD mp” below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
UDAASOAWD mp  = ∑h (DARUOAWD mp, h  + DARDOAWD mp, h + DARROAWD mp, h + DANSOAWD mp, h + DAECROAWD mp, h )
USOGTOT mp = ∑gsc (MEBSOGNET mp, gsc) + ∑ p, i (RTMGSOGZ mp, p, i) 

[NPRR995:  Insert the formula “USOCLTOT mp” below upon system implementation:]
USOCLTOT mp = (-1) * ∑gsc, b (WSOL mp, gsc, b)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
DURSCP cp	$	Default Uplift Ratio Share per Counter-Party—The Counter-Party’s pro rata portion of the total short-pay amount for all Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and Real-Time Market (RTM) Invoices for a month. 
TSPA	$	Total Short Pay Amount—The total short-pay amount calculated by ERCOT to be collected through the Default Uplift Invoice process.
MMARS cp	None	Maximum MWh Activity Ratio Share—The Counter-Party’s pro rata share of Maximum MWh Activity in the reference month.
MMA cp	MWh	Maximum MWh Activity—The maximum MWh activity of all Market Participants represented by the Counter-Party in the DAM, RTM and CRR Auction in the reference month.
MMATOT	MWh	Maximum MWh Activity Total—The sum of all Counter-Party’s Maximum MWh Activity in the reference month.
RTMG mp, p, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation per Market Participant per Settlement Point per Resource—The Real-Time energy produced by the Generation Resource r represented by Market Participant mp, at Resource Node p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Real-Time Metered Generation per Market Participant per Settlement Point per Resource—The Real-Time energy produced by the Resource r represented by Market Participant mp, at Resource Node p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.

URTMG mp	MWh	Uplift Real-Time Metered Generation per Market Participant—The monthly sum of Real-Time energy produced by Generation Resources represented by Market Participant mp, excluding generation for RMR Resources and generation in RUC-Committed Intervals, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party. 
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Uplift Real-Time Metered Generation per Market Participant—The monthly sum of Real-Time energy produced by Resources represented by Market Participant mp, excluding generation for RMR Resources and generation in RUC-Committed Intervals, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.

RTDCIMP mp, p, i	MW	Real-Time DC Import per QSE per Settlement Point—The aggregated Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedule submitted by Market Participant mp, as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
URTDCIMP mp	MW	Uplift Real-Time DC Import per Market Participant—The monthly sum of the aggregated DC Tie Schedule submitted by Market Participant mp, as an importer into the ERCOT System where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to a registered Counter-Party.
RTAML mp, p, i	MWh	Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load per Market Participant per Settlement Point—The sum of the Adjusted Metered Load (AML) at the Electrical Buses that are included in Settlement Point p represented by Market Participant mp for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
URTAML mp	MWh	Uplift Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load per Market Participant—The monthly sum of the AML represented by Market Participant mp, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
RTQQES mp, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale per Market Participant per Settlement Point—The amount of MW sold by Market Participant mp through Energy Trades at Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
URTQQES mp	MWh	Uplift QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale per Market Participant—The monthly sum of MW sold by Market Participant mp through Energy Trades, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
RTQQEP mp, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase per Market Participant per Settlement Point—The amount of MW bought by Market Participant mp through Energy Trades at Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
URTQQEP mp	MWh	Uplift QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase per Market Participant—The monthly sum of MW bought by Market Participant mp through Energy Trades, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
DAES mp, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale per Market Participant per Settlement Point per hour—The total amount of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s cleared Three-Part Supply Offers in the DAM and cleared DAM Energy-Only Offers at Settlement Point p, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
UDAES mp	MWh	Uplift Day-Ahead Energy Sale per Market Participant—The monthly total of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s cleared Three-Part Supply Offers in the DAM and cleared DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
DAEP mp, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per Market Participant per Settlement Point per hour—The total amount of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s cleared DAM Energy Bids at Settlement Point p for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
[NPRR1188:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per Market Participant per Settlement Point per hour—The total amount of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves, cleared in the DAM, at Settlement Point p for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a QSE.

UDAEP mp	MWh	Uplift Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per Market Participant—The monthly total of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s cleared DAM Energy Bids, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
[NPRR1188:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Uplift Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per Market Participant—The monthly total of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves, cleared in the DAM, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.

RTOBL mp, (j, k), h	MW	Real-Time Obligation per Market Participant per source and sink pair per hour—The number of Market Participant mp’s Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time for the hour h, and where the Market Participant is a QSE.
URTOBL mp	MWh	Uplift Real-Time Obligation per Market Participant—The monthly total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligations settled in Real-Time, counting the quantity only once per source and sink pair, and where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
RTOBLLO q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe total MW of the QSE’s PTP Obligation with Links to an Option Bids cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j and the sink k for the hour.
URTOBLLO q, (j, k)	MW	Uplift Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe monthly total of Market Participant mp’s MW of PTP Obligation with Links to Options Bids cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j and the sink k for the hour, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
DAOPT mp, (j, k), h	MW	Day-Ahead Option per Market Participant per source and sink pair per hourThe number of Market Participant mp’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k owned in the DAM for the hour h, and where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder. 
UDAOPT mp	MWh	Uplift Day-Ahead Option per Market ParticipantThe monthly total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Options owned in the DAM, counting the ownership quantity only once per source and sink pair, and where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
DAOBL mp, (j, k), h	MW	Day-Ahead Obligation per Market Participant per source and sink pair per hour—The number of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k owned in the DAM for the hour h, and where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.  
UDAOBL mp	MWh	Uplift Day-Ahead Obligation per Market ParticipantThe monthly total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligations owned in the DAM, counting the ownership quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OPTS mp, (j, k), a, h	MW	PTP Option Sale per Market Participant per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per hour—The MW quantity that represents the total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Option offers with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.
UOPTS mp	MWh	Uplift PTP Option Sale per Market Participant—The MW quantity that represents the monthly total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Option offers awarded in CRR Auctions, counting the awarded quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OBLS mp, (j, k), a, h	MW	PTP Obligation Sale per Market Participant per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per hour—The MW quantity that represents the total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligation offers with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.
UOBLS mp	MWh	Uplift PTP Obligation Sale per Market Participant—The MW quantity that represents the monthly total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligation offers awarded in CRR Auctions, counting the quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OPTP mp, (j, k), a, h	MW	PTP Option Purchase per Market Participant per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per hour—The MW quantity that represents the total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Option bids with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.
UOPTP mp	MWh	Uplift PTP Option Purchase per Market Participant—The MW quantity that represents the monthly total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Option bids awarded in CRR Auctions, counting the quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OBLP mp, (j, k), a, h	MW	PTP Obligation Purchase per Market Participant per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per hour—The MW quantity that represents the total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligation bids with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.
UOBLP mp	MWh	Uplift PTP Obligation Purchase per Market Participant—The MW quantity that represents the monthly total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligation bids awarded in CRR Auctions, counting the quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
[NPRR1201:  Delete the variables “OPTS mp, (j, k), a, h”, “UOPTS mp”, “OBLS mp, (j, k), a, h”, “UOBLS mp”, “OPTP mp, (j, k), a, h”, “UOPTP mp”, “OBLP mp, (j, k), a, h”, “UOBLP mp” above upon system implementation.]

UWSLTOT mp	MWh	Uplift Metered Energy for Wholesale Storage Load at bus per Market ParticipantThe monthly sum of Market Participant mp’s Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) energy metered by the Settlement Meter which measures WSL.
MEBL mp, r, b	MWh	Metered Energy for Wholesale Storage Load at busThe WSL energy metered by the Settlement Meter which measures WSL for the 15-minute Settlement Interval represented as a negative value, for the Market Participant mp, Resource r, at bus b.  
[NPRR1012:  Insert the variables below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
UDAASOAWD mp	MWh	Uplift Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Only Award per Market Participant—The monthly total of Market Participant mp’s Ancillary Service Only Offers awarded in DAM, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
DARUOAWD mp, h	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Up Only Award per Market ParticipantThe Reg-Up Only capacity quantity awarded in the DAM to the Market Participant mp for the hour h.
DARDOAWD mp, h	MW	Day-Ahead Reg-Down Only Award per Market ParticipantThe Reg-Down Only capacity quantity awarded in the DAM to the Market Participant mp for the hour h.
DARROAWD mp, h	MW	Day-Ahead Responsive Reserve Only Award per Market Participant The Responsive Reserve (RRS) Only capacity quantity awarded in the DAM to the Market Participant mp for the hour h.
DANSOAWD mp, h	MW	Day-Ahead Non-Spin Only Award per Market ParticipantThe Non-Spin Only capacity quantity awarded in the DAM to the Market Participant mp for the hour h.
DAECROAWD mp, h	MW	Day-Ahead ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Only Award per Market ParticipantThe ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) Only capacity quantity awarded in the DAM to the Market Participant mp for the hour h.


USOGTOT mp	MWh	Uplift Real-Time Settlement Only Generator Site per Market Participant—The monthly sum of Real-Time energy produced by Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) represented by Market Participant mp, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party. 
[NPRR995:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Uplift Real-Time Settlement Only Generator Site per Market Participant—The monthly sum of Real-Time energy produced by Settlement Only Generators (SOGs), Settlement Only Distribution Generators (SODGs), Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs), Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage Systems (SODESSs), or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage Systems (SOTESSs) represented by Market Participant mp, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.

[NPRRR995:  Insert the variable “USOCLTOT mp” below upon system implementation:]
USOCLTOT mp	MWh	Uplift Real-Time Settlement Only Charging Load per Market Participant—The monthly sum of Real-Time charging Load that is WSL by SODESSs and SOTESSs represented by Market Participant mp, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party. 


RTMGSOGZ mp. p, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation from Settlement Only Generators Zonal per QSE per Settlement Point—The total Real-Time energy produced by Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs) for the Market Participant mp in Load Zone Settlement Point p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  MWh quantities for Energy Storage System (ESS), Settlement Only Distribution Generators (SODGs), and Settlement Only Transmission Generators (SOTGs) at sites where the ESS capacity constitutes more than 50% of the total SOG nameplate capacity will be included in this value.  MWh quantities for SODGs and SOTGs that opted out of nodal pricing pursuant to Section 6.6.3.8, Real-Time Payment or Charge for Energy from a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) or a Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), will also be included in this value.
[NPRR995:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Real-Time Metered Generation from Settlement Only Generators Zonal per QSE per Settlement Point—The total Real-Time energy produced by Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generators (SOTSGs) for the Market Participant mp in Load Zone Settlement Point p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  MWh quantities for Energy Storage System (ESS), SODGs, and SOTGs at sites where the ESS capacity constitutes more than 50% of the total SOG nameplate capacity will be included in this value.  MWh quantities for SODGs and SOTGs that opted out of nodal pricing pursuant to Section 6.6.3.8, Real-Time Payment or Charge for Energy from a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG), Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS), or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS), will also be included in this value.

MEBSOGNET q, gsc	MWh	Net Metered energy at gsc for an SODG or SOTG SiteThe net sum for all Settlement Meters for SODG or SOTG site gsc represented by QSE q.  A positive value indicates an injection of power to the ERCOT System.
[NPRR995:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:]
Net Metered energy at gsc for an SODG, SOTG, SODESS, or SOTESS SiteThe net sum for all Settlement Meters for SODG, SOTG, SODESS, or SOTESS site gsc represented by QSE q for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.  A positive value indicates an injection of power to the ERCOT System.

[NPRRR995:  Insert the variable “WSOL mp, gsc, b” below upon system implementation:]
WSOL mp, gsc, b	MWh	WSL for an SODESS or SOTESS SiteThe WSL as measured for an for SODESS or SOTESS site gsc at Electrical Bus b, represented by the Market Participant mp, represented as a negative value, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval.



cp	none	A registered Counter-Party.
mp	none	A Market Participant with MWh activity in the reference month that is a currently-registered QSE or CRR Account Holder or that voluntarily terminated its QSE or CRR Account Holder registration.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i. 
r	none 	A Resource. 
gsc	none	A generation site code.
b	none	An Electrical Bus.

(3)	The uplifted short-paid amount will be allocated to the Market Participants (QSEs or CRR Account Holders) assigned to a registered Counter-Party based on the pro-rata share of MWhs that the QSE or CRR Account Holder contributed to its Counter-Party’s maximum MWh activity ratio share.
(4)	Any uplifted short-paid amount greater than $2,500,000 must be scheduled so that no amount greater than $2,500,000 is charged on each set of Default Uplift Invoices until ERCOT uplifts the total short-paid amount.  ERCOT must issue Default Uplift Invoices at least 30 days apart from each other.
(5)	ERCOT shall issue Default Uplift Invoices no earlier than 90 days following a short-pay of a Settlement Invoice on the date specified in the Settlement Calendar.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the Invoice on the MIS Certified Area once posted by ERCOT.
(6)	Each Default Uplift Invoice must contain:
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT);
(c)	Net Amount Due or Payable – the aggregate summary of all charges owed by a Default Uplift Invoice Recipient;
(d)	Run Date – the date on which ERCOT created and published the Default Uplift Invoice;
(e)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by the ERCOT applications for payment tracking purposes;
(f)	Default Uplift Invoice Reference – an identification code used to reference the amount uplifted;
(g)	Payment Date and Time – the date and time that Default Uplift Invoice amounts must be paid;
(h)	Remittance Information Details – details including the account number, bank name, and electronic transfer instructions of the ERCOT account to which any amounts owed by the Invoice Recipient are to be paid or of the Invoice Recipient’s account from which ERCOT may draw payments due; and
(i)	Overdue Terms – the terms that would apply if the Market Participant makes a late payment.
(7)	Each Invoice Recipient shall pay any net debit shown on the Default Uplift Invoice on the payment due date whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the debit.
9.19.2	Payment Process for Default Uplift Invoices
(1)	Payments for Default Uplift Invoices are due on a Bank Business Day and Business Day basis in a two-day, two-step process as detailed in this Section 9.19.2.
9.19.2.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Default Uplift
(1)	The payment due date and time for the Default Uplift Invoice with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient is 1700 on the fifth Bank Business Day after the Default Uplift Invoice date, unless fifth Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the fifth Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, then the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the fifth Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day.
(2)	All Default Uplift Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in U.S. Dollars (USDs) by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date.
9.19.2.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for Default Uplift
(1)	Subject to the availability of funds as discussed in paragraph (2) below, uplifted funds received from Default Uplift Invoices must be paid by ERCOT to short-paid Invoice Recipients by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after payments are due for that Default Uplift Invoice under Section 9.19.2.1, Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Default Uplift, subject to ERCOT’s right to withhold payments under Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, or pursuant to common law unless that next Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If that next Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due on the next Bank Business Day thereafter that is also a Business Day. 
(2)	ERCOT shall give irrevocable instructions to the ERCOT financial institution to remit to each short-paid Invoice Recipient for same day value the amounts determined by ERCOT to be available for payment to that short-paid Invoice Recipient under paragraph (1)(d) of Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients. 
(3)	Any short payments of Default Uplift Invoices must be handled under Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients.
9.19.3	Default Uplift Supporting Data Reporting
(1)	ERCOT shall post once each month on the MIS Certified Area, the Maximum MWh Activity (MMA), Maximum MWh Activity Total (MMATOT), Maximum MWh Activity Ratio Share (MMARS), and the Counter-Party level components of MMA calculation as defined in paragraph (2) of Section 9.19.1, Default Uplift Invoices.  Each month’s report shall be updated with Final and True-Up Settlement data when ERCOT’s systems contain the necessary information to complete the report with the updated data.
9.19.4	Exemption for Central Counter-Party Clearinghouses Regulated as Derivatives Clearing Organizations
(1)	Notwithstanding any other provision of Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients, or these Protocols, ERCOT shall not issue a Default Uplift Invoice to, and shall not otherwise collect any short-pay amounts from, any QSE that:  
(a) 	Otherwise would be subject to an uplift charge solely as a result of acting as a central Counter-Party clearinghouse in wholesale market transactions in ERCOT; and 
(b) 	Is regulated as a Derivatives Clearing Organization as defined by the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. § 1a.
[NPRR1208:  Insert Section 9.20 below upon system implementation:]
9.20	ERCOT Invoice Report
(1)	ERCOT will post daily, on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area, a Counter-Party report that lists the following Invoices that were issued for the current day and prior day to the Qualified Scheduling Entity(s) (QSE(s)) and Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder(s) represented by the Counter-Party:
(a)	Settlement Invoice;
(b)	CRR Auction Invoice;
(c)	CRR Auction Revenue Distribution Invoice;
(d)	CRR Balancing Account Invoice;
(e)	Miscellaneous Invoice;
(f)	Default Uplift Invoice;
(g)	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice;
(h)	Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice;
(i)	Securitization Default Charge Invoice;
(j)	Electric Reliability Organization (ERO) Invoice;
(k)	Wide Area Network (WAN) Invoice; and
(l)	Weatherization Inspection Invoice.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 10:  Metering

April 1, 2025





 
10	METERING	10-1
10.1	Overview	10-1
10.2	Scope of Metering Responsibilities	10-1
10.2.1	QSE Real-Time Metering	10-1
10.2.2	TSP and DSP Metered Entities	10-2
10.2.3	ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters	10-3
10.2.3.1	Entity EPS Responsibilities	10-4
10.2.4	Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR Auxiliary Load Values	10-6
10.2.4.1	Responsibilities for Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR Auxiliary Load Values	10-7
10.3	Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS)	10-10
10.3.1	Purpose	10-10
10.3.2	ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters	10-10
10.3.2.1	Generation Resource Meter Splitting	10-11
10.3.2.1.1	Split Generation Resource Metering Real-Time Signal	10-11
10.3.2.1.2	Allocating EPS Metered Data to Split Generation Resource Meters	10-12
10.3.2.1.3	Processing for Missing Dynamic Split Generation Resource Signal	10-12
10.3.2.1.4	Calculating the Split Generation Resource Ratio	10-13
10.3.2.1.5	Split Generation Resource Data Made Available to Market Participants	10-13
10.3.2.1.6	Allocating EPS Metered Data to Generator Owners When It Is Net Load	10-13
10.3.2.2	Loss Compensation of EPS Meter Data	10-13
10.3.2.3	Generation Netting for ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters	10-14
10.3.2.4	Reporting of Net Generation Capacity	10-18
10.3.3	TSP or DSP Metered Entities	10-19
10.3.3.1	Data Responsibilities	10-19
10.3.3.2	Retail Load Meter Splitting	10-20
10.3.3.2.1	Retail Customer Load Splitting Mechanism	10-20
10.3.3.2.2	TSP and DSP Responsibilities Associated with Retail Customer Load Splitting	10-21
10.3.3.2.3	ERCOT Requirements for Retail Load Splitting	10-21
10.3.3.3	Submission of Settlement Quality Meter Data to ERCOT	10-21
10.3.3.3.1	Past Due Data Submission	10-22
10.4	Certification of EPS Metering Facilities	10-22
10.4.1	Overview	10-22
10.4.2	EPS Design Proposal Documentation Required from the TSP or DSP	10-23
10.4.2.1	Approval or Rejection of an EPS Design Proposal for EPS Metering Facilities	10-23
10.4.2.1.1	Unconditional Approval	10-23
10.4.2.1.2	Conditional Approval	10-23
10.4.2.1.3	Rejection	10-24
10.4.3	Site Certification Documentation Required from the TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector	10-24
10.4.3.1	Review by ERCOT	10-25
10.4.3.2	Provisional Approval	10-25
10.4.3.3	Obligation to Maintain Approval	10-25
10.4.3.4	Revocation of Approval	10-25
10.4.3.5	Changes to Approved EPS Metering Facilities	10-26
10.4.3.6	Confirmation of Certification	10-26
10.5	TSP and DSP EPS Meter Inspectors	10-26
10.5.1	List of TSP and DSP EPS Meter Inspectors	10-26
10.5.2	EPS Meter Inspector Approval Process	10-26
10.5.2.1	TSP and DSP Responsibilities	10-26
10.5.2.2	ERCOT Responsibilities	10-27
10.6	Auditing and Testing of Metering Facilities	10-27
10.6.1	EPS Meter Entities	10-27
10.6.1.1	ERCOT Requirement for Audits and Tests	10-27
10.6.1.2	TSP and DSP Testing Requirements for EPS Metering Facilities	10-27
10.6.1.3	Failure to Comply	10-28
10.6.1.4	Requests by Market Participants	10-28
10.6.2	TSP and DSP Metered Entities	10-28
10.6.2.1	Requirement for Audit and Testing	10-28
10.6.2.2	TSP and DSP Requirement to Certify per Governmental Authorities	10-29
10.7	ERCOT Request for Installation of EPS Metering Facilities	10-29
10.7.1	Additional EPS Metering Installations	10-29
10.7.2	Approval or Rejection of Waiver Request for Installation of EPS Metering Facilities	10-29
10.7.2.1	Approval	10-30
10.7.2.2	Rejection	10-30
10.8	Maintenance of Metering Facilities	10-30
10.8.1	EPS Meters	10-30
10.8.1.1	Duty to Maintain EPS Metering Facilities	10-30
10.8.1.2	EPS Metering Facilities Repairs	10-30
10.8.2	TSP or DSP Metered Entities	10-31
10.9	Standards for Metering Facilities	10-31
10.9.1	ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters	10-32
10.9.2	TSP or DSP Metered Entities	10-33
10.9.3	Failure to Comply with Standards	10-34
10.10	Security of Meter Data	10-34
10.10.1	EPS Meters	10-34
10.10.1.1	TSP and DSP Data Security Responsibilities	10-34
10.10.1.2	ERCOT Data Security Responsibilities	10-35
10.10.1.3	Resource Entity Data Security Responsibilities	10-35
10.10.1.4	Third Party Access Withdrawn	10-35
10.10.1.5	Meter Site Security	10-35
10.10.2	TSP or DSP Metered Entities	10-35
10.11	Validating, Editing, and Estimating of Meter Data	10-35
10.11.1	EPS Meters	10-35
10.11.2	Obligation to Assist	10-36
10.11.3	TSP or DSP Settlement Meters	10-36
10.12	Communications	10-36
10.12.1	ERCOT Acquisition of ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter Data	10-36
10.12.2	TSP or DSP Meter Data Submittal to ERCOT	10-37
10.12.3	ERCOT Distribution of Settlement Quality Meter Data	10-37
10.13	Meter Identification	10-37
10.14	Exemptions from Compliance to Metering Protocols	10-37
10.14.1	Authority to Grant Exemptions	10-37
10.14.2	Guidelines for Granting Temporary Exemptions	10-38
10.14.3	Procedure for Applying for Exemptions	10-38
10.14.3.1	Information to be Included in the Application	10-38
 
 
10	METERING
10.1	Overview
(1)	This Section specifies the responsibilities and requirements for meter data, certification of Metering Facilities, meter standards, approved meter types and the process for auditing, testing, and maintenance of Metering Facilities to be used in the ERCOT Region.  
(2)	Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Distribution Service Providers (DSPs) are the only Entities authorized to provide Settlement Meter data to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall maintain a Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS) to collect generation and consumption energy data for Settlement purposes under these Protocols.  The MDAS must receive Customer Load meter data from TSPs and DSPs and must collect data from all ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meters.
(3)	All Service Delivery Points, excluding EPS, Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG), or Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) metering points, that meet the requirements of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.311, Competitive Metering Services, are eligible for competitive meter ownership pursuant to such Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rule.  All competitively owned meters shall meet all the applicable metering requirements of these Protocols and the Retail Market Guide Section 10, Competitive Metering.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	All Service Delivery Points, excluding EPS, Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG), Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS), or Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) metering points, that meet the requirements of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.311, Competitive Metering Services, are eligible for competitive meter ownership pursuant to such Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rule.  All competitively owned meters shall meet all the applicable metering requirements of these Protocols and the Retail Market Guide Section 10, Competitive Metering.
10.2	Scope of Metering Responsibilities
10.2.1	QSE Real-Time Metering
(1)	The Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) responsibility for Real-Time metering requirements is contained in Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements.
10.2.2	TSP and DSP Metered Entities
(1)	Each Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and Distribution Service Provider (DSP) is responsible for supplying ERCOT with meter data associated with:
(a)	All Loads using the ERCOT System;
(b)	Any Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG); a DSP may make some or all such meters ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) compliant and may request that ERCOT poll the meters.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, meter data is not required from:
(i)	Generation owned by a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) and used for the NOIE’s self-use (not serving Customer Load); 
(ii)	Distributed Renewable Generation (DRG) with a design capacity less than 50 kW interconnected to a DSP where the owner chooses not to have the out-flow measured in accordance with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.213, Metering for Distributed Renewable Generation; and
(iii)	Distributed Generation (DG) interconnected to a DSP behind a registered NOIE boundary metering point, not registered as a Generation Resource and with an installed capacity below the DG registration threshold, as determined in Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, and posted on the ERCOT website.     
(c)	NOIE or External Load Serving Entity (ELSE) points of delivery where metering points are radial Loads and are uni-directionally metered and NOIE points of delivery that have bi-directional flows that are solely the result of generation interconnected to a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) owned Distribution System behind a NOIE point of delivery metering point.  A TSP or DSP has the option of making some or all such meters EPS compliant and to request that ERCOT poll the meters; and
(d)	Generation participating in a current Emergency Response Service (ERS) Contract Period, where such generation only exports energy to the ERCOT System during an ERS deployment or ERS test.
[NPRR1188:  Insert paragraph (e) below upon system implementation:]
(e)	Load that has TDSP read meter(s) and is participating as a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) that is not an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR).  The CLR must be metered separately from all other Loads and generation.
(2)	Each TSP and DSP is responsible for the following:
(a)	Compliance with the procedures and standards in this Section, the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG) and the Operating Guides; 
(b)	Installation, control, and maintenance of the Settlement Metering Facilities, as more fully described in this Section and the SMOG, which includes meters, recorders, instrument transformers, wiring, and miscellaneous equipment required to measure electrical energy;
(c)	Costs incurred in the installation and maintenance of these Metering Facilities and communications except for incremental costs incurred for functions not required for the Settlement of the Load or Generation Resource, Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or Load Resource.  These incremental costs shall be borne by the Entities requesting the service pursuant to the TSP or DSP tariffs; and
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(c)	Costs incurred in the installation and maintenance of these Metering Facilities and communications except for incremental costs incurred for functions not required for the Settlement of the Load or Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or Load Resource.  These incremental costs shall be borne by the Entities requesting the service pursuant to the TSP or DSP tariffs; and
(d)	Installation, maintenance, data collection, and related communications, telemetry for the Metering Facilities, and related services necessary to meet the mandatory Interval Data Recorder (IDR) requirements detailed in this Section, Section 18, Load Profiling, and the SMOG.
10.2.3	ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters
(1)	ERCOT shall poll Metering Facilities that meet any one of the following criteria:
(a)	Generation connected directly to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, unless the generation is participating in a current ERS Contract Period and the generation only exports energy to the ERCOT Transmission Grid during equipment testing, an ERS deployment, or an ERS test;
(b)	Auxiliary meters used for generation netting by ERCOT;
(c)	Generation delivering 10 MW or more to the ERCOT System, unless the generation is participating in a current ERS Contract Period and the generation only exports energy to the ERCOT System during equipment testing, an ERS deployment, or an ERS test;
(d)	Generation participating in any Ancillary Service market;
(e)	NOIE points connected bi-directionally to the ERCOT System, unless the bi-directional energy flows are the sole result of generation interconnected to a TDSP owned Distribution System behind a NOIE point of delivery metering point; 
(f)	Direct Current Ties (DC Ties);
(g)	DG where there is an energy storage Load Resource that has associated Wholesale Storage Load (WSL);
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (g) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(g)	Metering required to determine the Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) or Non-WSL Settlement Only Charging Load associated to a Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS) or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS);
(h)	Metering required to determine WSL associated with an Energy Storage Resource (ESR); and 
(i)	Metering required to determine the Non-WSL ESR Charging Load.
[NPRR1188:  Insert paragraph (j) below upon system implementation:]
(j)	Metering required to measure the consumption of a Load that has registered as a CLR with ERCOT and is not an ALR, where the CLR is behind the Point of Interconnection (POI) of a generator, as reflected in an ERCOT-approved EPS Design Proposal.  The CLR must be metered separately from all other Loads and generation through a single EPS metering point.
(2)	Additionally, ERCOT shall poll any SODG or NOIE metering point at the request of such Entity, provided the Metering Facility meets all requirements and approvals associated with EPS metering requirements of this Section and the SMOG.  Load Resources of ten MW or more on the ERCOT System, may, at their option have an EPS Meter.
[NPRR1188:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	Additionally, ERCOT shall poll any SODG or NOIE metering point at the request of such Entity, provided the Metering Facility meets all requirements and approvals associated with EPS metering requirements of this Section and the SMOG.  Load Resources that have registered as a CLR with ERCOT and are not an ALR, where the CLR is ten MW or more and the CLR is the only Load behind the Service Delivery Point such that it can be separately metered at its Service Delivery Point, may, at their option have an EPS Meter.
10.2.3.1	Entity EPS Responsibilities
(1)	The following defines the responsibilities of Entities regarding EPS metering:

(a)	EPS Meters must be polled directly by ERCOT, which shall then convert the raw data to Settlement Quality Meter Data in accordance with this Section, Section 11, Data Acquisition and Aggregation, and the SMOG.
(b)	A TSP or DSP shall have EPS Metering Facilities installed and maintained under the supervision of a TSP or DSP “EPS Meter Inspector,” which is defined as an employee or agent of the TSP or DSP who has received EPS training from ERCOT, and is described further herein.  This requirement does not apply to Resource Entity-owned Metering Facilities used to measure, calculate, or telemeter ESR auxiliary Load pursuant to Section 10.2.4, Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR Auxiliary Load Values.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(b)	A TSP or DSP shall have EPS Metering Facilities installed and maintained under the supervision of a TSP or DSP “EPS Meter Inspector,” which is defined as an employee or agent of the TSP or DSP who has received EPS training from ERCOT, and is described further herein.  This requirement does not apply to Resource Entity-owned Metering Facilities used to measure, calculate, or telemeter ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS auxiliary Load pursuant to Section 10.2.4, Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS Auxiliary Load Values.
(c)	Each TSP and DSP shall install, control, and maintain the meters, recorders, instrument transformers, wiring, communications, and other miscellaneous equipment required to measure electrical energy, as described in this Section and SMOG, except for Resource Entity-owned equipment used to measure, calculate, or telemeter an auxiliary Load value for an ESR pursuant to Section 10.2.4.  
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	Each TSP and DSP shall install, control, and maintain the meters, recorders, instrument transformers, wiring, communications, and other miscellaneous equipment required to measure electrical energy, as described in this Section and SMOG, except for Resource Entity-owned equipment used to measure, calculate, or telemeter an auxiliary Load value for an ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS pursuant to Section 10.2.4.
(d)	Each TSP and DSP shall install and maintain a Back-up Meter(s) at each EPS Meter location for Resources, auxiliary netting, and bi-directional meter points.  A “Back-up Meter” is defined as a redundant revenue quality EPS Meter connected at the same metering point as the primary EPS Meter and meeting the requirements defined in the SMOG.
(e)	Costs incurred in the installation and maintenance of EPS metered Facilities and communications will be the responsibility of the TSP or DSP except for incremental costs incurred for functions not required for the energy settlement as required by these Protocols.  These incremental costs shall be borne by the Entities requesting the service, as per the TSP’s or DSP’s tariffs.
(f)	Specific operating practices for EPS Metering Facilities are included in the SMOG.
10.2.4	Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR Auxiliary Load Values
(1)	When the Resource Entity certifies, the interconnecting TDSP confirms by approving the metering design, and, based on the information provided by the TDSP as part of the EPS Design Proposal, ERCOT agrees that metering of an ESR’s WSL separate from the ESR’s auxiliary Load is not feasible based on the ESR’s physical design, the Resource Entity for that ESR shall be permitted to calculate the auxiliary Load using measurements from its own internal sensors and telemeter a Real-Time aggregated value for that Load to the TDSP’s EPS Meter.  The Resource Entity may telemeter a zero Load value only when the ESR is discharging more than the calculated auxiliary Load.  The methodology by which the auxiliary Load is calculated is subject to ERCOT approval.  
(2)	An officer of the Resource Entity shall annually attest to the methodology and validity of the auxiliary Load calculation, as further described in the SMOG.  The Resource Entity shall include with its annual attestation the findings of an independent audit performed by a registered Texas Professional Engineer confirming the auxiliary Load calculation does not understate the Load value.  The audit shall be based on laboratory testing that reflects the anticipated field conditions of the same model of sensor as that used by the Resource Entity or validation using measurements by other devices over the past year, as further described in the SMOG.  The audit shall evaluate the impact of any degradation in accuracy of the sensors over time.
(3)	If the Resource Entity is unable to provide the attestation and audit findings meeting the requirements of paragraph (2) above, it shall either reconfigure the Resource Entity’s site and resubmit its meter design within 30 days to allow for separately metering the WSL, or forfeit WSL treatment.  
(4)	ERCOT may conduct an audit of the Resource Entity’s processes, equipment, and calculation of the auxiliary Load. 
(5)	The TSP or DSP shall assign all costs required for separately metering the auxiliary Load for WSL treatment to the EPS Meter to the Resource Entity.  
[NPRR995:  Replace Section 10.2.4 above with the following upon system implementation:]
10.2.4	Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS Auxiliary Load Values
(1)	When the Resource Entity certifies, the interconnecting TDSP confirms by approving the metering design, and, based on the information provided by the TDSP as part of the EPS Design Proposal, ERCOT agrees that metering of an ESR’s WSL separate from the ESR’s, SODESS’s, or SOTESS’s auxiliary Load is not feasible based on the ESR’s, SODESS’s, or SOTESS’s physical design, the Resource Entity for that ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS shall be permitted to calculate the auxiliary Load using measurements from its own internal sensors and telemeter a Real-Time aggregated value for that Load to the TDSP’s EPS Meter.  The Resource Entity may telemeter a zero Load value only when the ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS is discharging more than the calculated auxiliary Load.  The methodology by which the auxiliary Load is calculated is subject to ERCOT approval.  
(2)	An officer of the Resource Entity shall annually attest to the methodology and validity of the auxiliary Load calculation, as further described in the SMOG.  The Resource Entity shall include with its annual attestation the findings of an independent audit performed by a registered Texas Professional Engineer confirming the auxiliary Load calculation does not understate the Load value.  The audit shall be based on laboratory testing that reflects the anticipated field conditions of the same model of sensor as that used by the Resource Entity or validation using measurements by other devices over the past year, as further described in the SMOG.  The audit shall evaluate the impact of any degradation in accuracy of the sensors over time.
(3)	If the Resource Entity is unable to provide the attestation and audit findings meeting the requirements of paragraph (2) above, it shall either reconfigure the Resource Entity’s site and resubmit its meter design within 30 days to allow for separately metering the WSL or forfeit WSL treatment.  
(4)	ERCOT may conduct an audit of the Resource Entity’s processes, equipment, and calculation of the auxiliary Load. 
(5)	The TSP or DSP shall assign all costs required for separately metering the auxiliary Load for WSL treatment to the EPS Meter to the Resource Entity.
10.2.4.1	Responsibilities for Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR Auxiliary Load Values
(1)	For each site at which a Resource Entity telemeters its auxiliary Load value, as permitted by Section 10.2.4, Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR Auxiliary Load Values:

(a)	The Resource Entity shall:
(i)	Provide supporting information on the equipment, configuration, drawings and processes used to calculate the telemetry signal, including supporting information on the calculation of the telemetry signal for inclusion in the EPS Design Proposal. 
(ii)	Provide documentation of the auxiliary Load calculation methodology as defined in this Section and the SMOG.
(iii)	Install, control, and maintain the sensors, instrumentation, wiring, communications, and other equipment required to calculate and provide the telemetry signal. 
(iv)	Provide and update contact information for a person designated for communication regarding the auxiliary Load supporting information and data.
(v)	Act in accordance with any TDSP requirements concerning EPS Meters and Metering Facilities in the Protocols and SMOG that pertain to the following issues: 
(A) 	Calculation of Load values and data estimation issues;
(B)	The provision of notice to ERCOT regarding any outage or any other issue affecting the accuracy of the Load calculation or the availability of the telemetry of the Load value; and
(C) 	The implementation of any proposed change to the calculation or equipment, as documented in the EPS Design Proposal; and
(vi)	Provide any information requested by ERCOT or the TDSP with respect to the measurement, calculation, and/or telemetry of the auxiliary Load value.
(b)	The interconnecting TDSP shall:
(i)	Use an EPS Meter to calculate 15-minute energy values from the Resource Real-Time telemetry signal for the auxiliary Load and store the data in the EPS Meter for retrieval by the ERCOT Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS); and
(ii)	Include an auxiliary Load metering point on the EPS Design Proposal that represents the calculation of the telemetry signal. 
(c)	ERCOT shall:
(i)	Review the Resource-provided data on the calculation of the telemetry signal submitted as part of the EPS Design Proposal to ensure compliance with defined rules in this Section and the SMOG; and 
(ii)	Request assistance and information from the Resource-designated contact for items related to the telemetry.
[NPRR995:  Replace Section 10.2.4.1 above with the following upon system implementation:]
10.2.4.1	Responsibilities for Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS Auxiliary Load Values
(1)	For each site at which a Resource Entity telemeters its auxiliary Load value, as permitted by Section 10.2.4, Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS Auxiliary Load Values:

(a)	The Resource Entity shall:
(i)	Provide supporting information on the equipment, configuration, drawings and processes used to calculate the telemetry signal, including supporting information on the calculation of the telemetry signal for inclusion in the EPS Design Proposal. 
(ii)	Provide documentation of the auxiliary Load calculation methodology as defined in this Section and the SMOG.
(iii)	Install, control, and maintain the sensors, instrumentation, wiring, communications, and other equipment required to calculate and provide the telemetry signal. 
(iv)	Provide and update contact information for a person designated for communication regarding the auxiliary Load supporting information and data.
(v)	Act in accordance with any TDSP requirements concerning EPS Meters and Metering Facilities in the Protocols and SMOG that pertain to the following issues:
(A)	Calculation of Load values and data estimation issues;
(B)	The provision of notice to ERCOT regarding any outage or any other issue affecting the accuracy of the Load calculation or the availability of the telemetry of the Load value; and
(C)	The implementation of any proposed change to the calculation or equipment, as documented in the EPS Design Proposal; and
(vi)	Provide any information requested by ERCOT or the TDSP with respect to the measurement, calculation, and/or telemetry of the auxiliary Load value.
(b)	The interconnecting TDSP shall:
(i)	Use an EPS Meter to calculate 15 minute energy values from the Resource Real-Time telemetry signal for the auxiliary Load and store the data in the EPS Meter for retrieval by the ERCOT Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS); and
(ii)	Include an auxiliary Load metering point on the EPS Design Proposal that represents the calculation of the telemetry signal. 
(c)	ERCOT shall:
(i)	Review the Resource-provided data on the calculation of the telemetry signal submitted as part of the EPS Design Proposal to ensure compliance with defined rules in this Section and the SMOG; and 
(ii)	Request assistance and information from the Resource-designated contact for items related to the telemetry.
10.3	Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS)
10.3.1	Purpose
(1)	The Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS) will be used:

(a)	By ERCOT to obtain and receive Revenue Quality Meter data from the ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meters and Settlement Quality Meter Data from the Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and Distribution Service Provider (DSP) for Settlement and billing purposes; and,
(b)		To populate the ERCOT Data Archive used by Market Participants or their agents with authority to access Settlement Quality Meter Data held by ERCOT.
10.3.2	ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters
(1)	Each TSP and DSP shall, in accordance with these Protocols and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG), provide ERCOT-approved metering communication equipment and connection to permit ERCOT access to the TSP’s or DSP’s EPS Meters.
(2)	For a Resource site that consumes Load other than Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) and is not behind a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) tie meter:
(a)	A Resource site may not energize until ERCOT has received an Electric Service Identifier(s) (ESI ID(s)) to be used in the generation netting process for that site, and the ESI ID has been established in the ERCOT Settlement system in a state that allows for the Load to be properly settled to the appropriate Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE);
(b)	The Resource Entity must request an ESI ID(s) from the DSP(s) that will be serving the Load at the Resource site;
(c)	Each DSP that will be serving Load at the Resource site shall provide ERCOT and the Resource Entity with the ESI ID(s); and
(d)	The Resource Entity must enter the ESI ID(s) in ERCOT’s Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (RIOO) interconnection services application, or alternate application designated by ERCOT.
(3)	ERCOT shall retrieve meter data electronically and automatically by MDAS.  ERCOT may also collect meter data on demand.
10.3.2.1	Generation Resource Meter Splitting
(1)	Each Generation Resource must be represented by only one QSE, except that a jointly owned Generation Resource unit or group of Generation Resources may split the net generation output into two or more Split Generation Resources for a Resource Entity.  Each Resource Entity representing a Split Generation Resource may have its energy and capacity scheduled through a separate QSE.  For purposes of this paragraph, a jointly owned Generation Resource unit or group of Generation Resources shall also include the San Miguel and Gibbons Creek power projects and Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) such as wind and solar generation.
(2)	When a Generation Resource that has been split to function as two or more Split Generation Resources is registered with ERCOT, the Resource Entities representing the Split Generation Resources shall be required to submit a percentage allocation of the Generation Resource to be used to determine the capacity available at each Split Generation Resource.
(3)	When a Generation Resource that has been split to function as two or more Split Generation Resources is registered with ERCOT, the owners of the Generation Resource shall submit all required ERCOT Facility registration documentation and an ERCOT-approved splitting agreement executed by an Authorized Representative from each owning Resource Entity.  Such agreement shall contain a defined and fixed ownership percentage as among the owning Resource Entities.  ERCOT shall establish this Generation Resource as a “split,” essentially establishing Split Generation Resource meters.  Generation splitting based on a static ratio is not permitted.  Generation splitting requires Real-Time splitting signals.
10.3.2.1.1	Split Generation Resource Metering Real-Time Signal
(1)	When a Split Generation Resource is registered with ERCOT, the QSE representing the Split Generation Resource shall provide ERCOT with a Real-Time signal of the MW of generation for the Split Generation Resource.  The Real-Time MW signals must be revised every scan cycle and must represent the QSE’s Split Generation Resource in positive MW.  
(2)	ERCOT shall integrate the Real-Time MW signals and provide a MWh value for each 15-minute interval for each Split Generation Resource.  
(3)	The settlement system shall use the integrated MWh per interval value to calculate the percentage breakdowns to be applied to the actual metered MWh values retrieved from the EPS Metering Facility.
10.3.2.1.2	Allocating EPS Metered Data to Split Generation Resource Meters
(1)	ERCOT shall poll the EPS Metering Facilities related to the actual Generation Resource and store the meter data at 15-minute intervals.  This metering data must be validated, edited, estimated, and compensated for losses, as necessary, and be netted as required.  This resulting data must then have the Split Generation Resource ratios applied to assign the generation to the QSE representing each owner of the Split Generation Resources.  The MWh quantities of the Split Generation Resources must be used in all Settlement calculations and reports.
(2)	The following example illustrates the splitting of the generation data:
Splitting Example 1
Integrated values from ERCOT systems			
Actual
Metered
MWh	Data to be Used in Settlement
Interval
Ending	UNIT1
(MWh)	UNIT2
(MWh)	UNIT3
(MWh)	Total
MWh		% Ratios
Unit 1, 2, 3		
Split MWh	
Split MWh	
Split MWh
13:15	10	20	10	40		25, 50, 25	52	13	26	13

10.3.2.1.3	Processing for Missing Dynamic Split Generation Resource Signal
(1)	For any interval when ERCOT has not received a Real-Time signal for any one of the Split Generation Resources, ERCOT shall use the last valid percentage ratio for a completed interval.
Splitting Example 2
Integrated values from ERCOT systems			
Actual
Metered
MWh	Data to be Used in Settlement
Interval
Ending	UNIT1
(MWh)	UNIT2
(MWh)	UNIT3
(MWh)	Total
MWh		% Ratios
Unit 1, 2, 3		
Split MWh	
Split MWh	
Split MWh
13:15	10	20	10	40		25, 50, 25	52	13	26	13
13:30	NA	21	10	NA		Ratio Above	55	13.75	27.5	13.75
13:45	NA	22	10	NA		Ratio Above	48	12	24	12
10.3.2.1.4	Calculating the Split Generation Resource Ratio
(1)	For Split Generation Resources, ERCOT shall provide for Settlement the net MWh value for each 15-minute interval.  This value is the MWh accumulated based on the MW value over each scan cycle.  ERCOT shall use a standard “integration” mechanism to perform this function.
(2)	For Settlement, ERCOT shall use the integrated data to determine the allocation ratio as the integrated share of each signal divided by the integrated total of signals.
10.3.2.1.5	Split Generation Resource Data Made Available to Market Participants
(1)	Market Participants shall have access to allocated generation output and ratio data only for Split Generation Resources that they represent.  
10.3.2.1.6	Allocating EPS Metered Data to Generator Owners When It Is Net Load
(1)	EPS Generation Resource sites that are netted by ERCOT may have multiple Competitive Retailers (CRs) associated with the Load.  ERCOT shall poll the EPS metering facilities related to the actual Generation Resource facility and store the meter data at 15-minute intervals.  ERCOT shall perform validation, editing, estimation, compensation for losses as necessary, and netting as required for EPS metering data.  For intervals when data is net Load, the fixed ownership percentages stored in the asset database must be used to allocate the consumption to multiple ESI IDs.  The consumption quantities for the ESI IDs must be used in all energy settlement calculations and reports.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	EPS Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR) sites that are netted by ERCOT may have multiple Competitive Retailers (CRs) associated with the Load.  ERCOT shall poll the EPS metering facilities related to the actual Generation Resource or ESR facility and store the meter data at 15-minute intervals.  ERCOT shall perform validation, editing, estimation, compensation for losses as necessary, and netting as required for EPS metering data.  For intervals when data is net Load, the fixed ownership percentages stored in the asset database must be used to allocate the consumption to multiple Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs).  The consumption quantities for the ESI IDs must be used in all energy settlement calculations and reports.
10.3.2.2	Loss Compensation of EPS Meter Data
(1)	Where the EPS Meter is not located at the Point of Interconnection (POI) to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, actual metered consumption must be adjusted for line and transformation losses to the POI in accordance with SMOG Section 8, Transformer and Line Loss Compensation Factors.  The preferred method for loss compensation and correction is via internal meter programming.
(2)	Recognizing the fact that some locations may not have the total functionality necessary to perform internal compensation, the Data Aggregation System (DAS) must have the functionality to perform approved loss compensation as necessary.  ERCOT shall retain the discretion to allow or deny the continued use of this type of metering.
(3)	No meter may be compensated internally for losses more than once.  ERCOT may compensate multiple meters prior to netting to the POI.  Pulse communications transfer of data between meters is not allowed.
10.3.2.3	Generation Netting for ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters
(1)	Each Generation Resource and Settlement Only Generator (SOG) and each Load that is designated to be netted with that Generation Resource or SOG, including construction and maintenance Load that is netted with existing generation auxiliaries, must be physically metered at its POI to the ERCOT Transmission Grid or Service Delivery Point, or, in accordance with Section 10.3.2.2, Loss Compensation of EPS Meter Data, loss-compensated to its POI to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Interval Data Recorders (IDRs) must be used to determine generator output or Load usage.  In the intervals where the generation output exceeds the Load, the net must be settled as generation.  In the intervals where the Load exceeds the generation output, the net must be settled as Load, and carry any applicable Load shared charges and credits.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each Generation Resource, ESR, and Settlement Only Generator (SOG) and each Load that is designated to be netted with that Generation Resource or SOG, including construction and maintenance Load that is netted with existing generation auxiliaries, must be physically metered at its POI to the ERCOT Transmission Grid or Service Delivery Point, or, in accordance with Section 10.3.2.2, Loss Compensation of EPS Meter Data, loss-compensated to its POI to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  Interval Data Recorders (IDRs) must be used to determine generator output or Load usage.  In the intervals where the generation output exceeds the Load, the net must be settled as generation.  In the intervals where the Load exceeds the generation output, the net must be settled as Load, and carry any applicable Load shared charges and credits.
(2)	For Settlement purposes, netting is not allowed except under the configurations described in paragraphs (2)(a) through (2)(e) below, and only if the service arrangement is otherwise lawful.  ERCOT has no obligation to independently determine whether a site configuration that includes both Loads and Generation Resource(s) or SOGs complies with Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) or the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules, and ERCOT’s approval of a metering proposal for such a site is not a verification of the legality of that arrangement:
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	For Settlement purposes, netting is not allowed except under the configurations described in paragraphs (2)(a) through (2)(e) below, and only if the service arrangement is otherwise lawful.  ERCOT has no obligation to independently determine whether a site configuration that includes both Loads and Generation Resource(s), ESR(s), or SOG(s) complies with Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) or the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules, and ERCOT’s approval of a metering proposal for such a site is not a verification of the legality of that arrangement:
(a)	Single POI or Service Delivery Point;
(b)	Transmission-level interconnections where all POIs are located at the same substation, at the same voltage, and under normal operating conditions, are interconnected through common electrical equipment such as circuit breakers, connecting cables, bus bars, switches/isolators.  Qualifying station arrangements include, but are not limited to, Generation and Load connected in a line bus, ring bus, double-breaker, or breaker-and-a-half configuration;
(c)	Multiple POIs where the Loads and generator output are electrically connected to a common switchyard, as defined in paragraph (7) below.  In addition, there must be sufficient generator capacity to serve all plant Loads for netting to occur;
(d)	A Qualifying Facility (QF) with POIs, where the QF is selling energy to a thermal host, may net the Load meters of the thermal host with the QF’s generation meters when the Load and generation are electrically connected to a common switchyard.  In instances in which Load is served by new on-site generation through a common switchyard, the TSP or DSP may install monitoring equipment necessary for measuring Load to determine stranded cost charges, if any are applicable, as determined under the PURA and applicable PUCT rules.  For purposes of this Section, new on-site generation has the meaning as contained in Public Utility Regulatory Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. §§ 39.252 and 39.262(k) (Vernon 1998 & Supp. 2007) (PURA); or
(e)	For Generation Resources and/or Load with flow-through on a private, contiguous transmission system (not included in a TSP or DSP rate base) and in a configuration existing as of October 1, 2000, the meters at the interconnections with the ERCOT Transmission Grid may be netted for the purpose of determining Generation Resources or Load.  For Settlement purposes, when the net is a Load, the metered interconnection points must be assigned to the same Load Zone and Unaccounted for Energy (UFE) zone.
(3)	For Energy Storage Resource (ESR) sites, WSL must be separately metered from all other Loads and generation, and must be metered using EPS Metering Facilities.
(a)	For configurations where the Resource Entity telemeters an auxiliary Load value to the EPS Meter: 
(i)	The total energy into the ESR must be separately metered from all other Loads and generation, and must be metered using EPS Metering Facilities; and 
(ii)	The auxiliary Load energy shall be stored in the EPS Meter’s IDR, per channel assignments defined in the SMOG. 
(b)	For configurations where the WSL is not at a POI, it must be metered behind a single POI metering point, per the requirements in paragraph (3) or (3)(a) above; and
(c)	WSL for a compressed air energy storage Load Resource is exempt from the requirement to be electrically connected to a common switchyard, as defined in paragraph (7) below.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	For Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS), or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS) sites, WSL must be separately metered from all other Loads and generation, and must be metered using EPS Metering Facilities.
(a)	For configurations where the Resource Entity telemeters an auxiliary Load value to the EPS Meter: 
(i)	The total energy into the ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS must be separately metered from all other Loads and generation, and must be metered using EPS Metering Facilities; and 
(ii)	The auxiliary Load energy shall be stored in the EPS Meter’s IDR, per channel assignments defined in the SMOG. 
(b)	For configurations where the WSL is not at a POI, it must be metered behind a single POI metering point, per the requirements in paragraph (3) or (3)(a) above; and
(c)	WSL for a compressed air energy storage Load Resource is exempt from the requirement to be electrically connected to a common switchyard, as defined in paragraph (7) below.

[NPRR1188:  Insert paragraph (4) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(4)	For a generation site with a single POI and one or more Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) behind the POI, an EPS Meter to separately measure each CLR Load is required.  The TDSP(s) must install the EPS Meter only if all of the Entities consuming energy behind the POI, including the Resource Entity for such generation site, consent in writing to the metering arrangement, and the arrangement is included in an EPS Design Proposal that is approved by ERCOT.  The CLR shall provide notice to all Entities consuming energy behind the POI of its request for installation of an EPS Meter.
(4)	ERCOT shall maintain descriptions of the Metering Facilities of all common switchyards that contain multiple POIs of Loads (ESI IDs) and generation meters (EPS).  The description is limited to identifying the Entities within a common switchyard and a simplified diagram showing the metering configuration of all Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and Settlement Metering points.
(5)	All Load(s) included in the netting arrangement for an EPS Metering Facility shall only be electrically connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid through the EPS metering point(s) for such Facility.  Such Loads shall not be electrically connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid through electrical connections that are not metered by the EPS metering point(s) for the Facility.
(6)	Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (5) above, auxiliary Load(s) connected to the station service transformer not to exceed 500 kW in aggregate shall be permitted an additional electrical connection to a TSP’s or DSP’s Facilities through a separately metered Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) read metering point.  In locations subject to multiple certificated service areas, the Resource Entity shall notify each DSP that has the right to serve in the service area of the proposed connection.  This configuration requires mutual agreement between the connecting TSP, DSP, and Resource Entity, and the connection shall be achieved through an open transition load transfer switch listed for emergency service and shall only be used in emergency and maintenance situations.
(7)	For purposes of this Section, a common switchyard is defined as an electric substation Facility where the POI for Load and Generation Resources are located at the same Facility but where the interconnection points are physically not greater than 400 yards apart.  The physical connections of the Load to its POI and the Generation Resource to its POI cannot be Facilities that have been placed in a TSP’s or DSP’s rate base.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(7)	For purposes of this Section, a common switchyard is defined as an electric substation Facility where the POI for Load and Generation Resources or ESRs are located at the same Facility but where the interconnection points are physically not greater than 400 yards apart.  The physical connections of the Load to its POI and the Generation Resource or ESR to its POI cannot be Facilities that have been placed in a TSP’s or DSP’s rate base.
(8)	Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, for any Generation Resource or ESR that is configured to serve a Customer Load as part of a Private Microgrid Island (PMI), the connection to the Customer Load in the PMI configuration shall be located behind the EPS metering point at the Resource’s POI.  For a PMI configuration that includes an ESR that is receiving WSL treatment for charging Load, an EPS Meter shall be located to measure the ESR’s gross output net of any internal telemetered auxiliary Load, and a separate TDSP ESI ID (for nodal Settlement) with a Load Serving Entity (LSE) association must be established for the site prior to service of any Load.
(9)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website a report listing all Generation Resources or SOGs that have achieved commercial operations, excluding Decommissioned Generation Resources, Mothballed Generation Resources, and decommissioned SOGs, whose Resource Registration data indicates that the Generation Resource or SOG is part of a Private Use Network.  The report must identify the name of the Generation Resource or SOG site, its nameplate capacity, and the date the Generation Resource or SOG was added to the report.  The report shall not identify any confidential, customer-specific information regarding netted loads.  ERCOT shall update the list at least monthly.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (9) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(9)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website a report listing all Generation Resources, ESRs, or Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) that have achieved commercial operations, excluding Decommissioned Generation Resources or decommissioned ESRs, Mothballed Generation Resources or Mothballed ESRs, and decommissioned SOGs, whose Resource Registration data indicates that the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG is part of a Private Use Network.  The report must identify the name of the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG site, its nameplate capacity, and the date the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG was added to the report.  The report shall not identify any confidential, customer-specific information regarding netted loads.  ERCOT shall update the list at least monthly.
(10)	Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, for any Generation Resource or ESR that elects for Load(s) located behind the EPS metering point at the Resource’s POI to be excluded from the netting arrangement for an EPS Metering Facility, a Load EPS meter shall be located behind the EPS metering point at the Resource’s POI and a separate TDSP ESI ID with an LSE association must be established for the site prior to Load(s) being removed from the netting arrangement.  This configuration requires mutual agreement between the connecting TSP, DSP, Resource Entities, and any other Load(s) behind the EPS metering point.  The above requirement to have a separate TDSP ESI ID with an LSE association does not apply to EPS Metering Facilities that are located behind a NOIE meter point.
10.3.2.4	Reporting of Net Generation Capacity
(1)	Each Resource Entity with either a Generation Resource or Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG) in a Private Use Network shall complete and submit the declaration in Section 22, Attachment L, Declaration of Private Use Network Net Generation Capacity Availability, to ERCOT by February 1 of each year, stating its projected annual changes in net generation capacity available to the ERCOT Transmission Grid for May 31 of the previous calendar year to May 31 of the current calendar year, and annual changes as of May 31 for the next ten subsequent years.  ERCOT will use the aggregated capacity forecasts for the Report on Capacity, Demand and Reserves in the ERCOT Region (CDR), pursuant to Section 3.2.6.2.2, Total Capacity Estimate.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Each Resource Entity with either a Generation Resource, ESR, or Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG) in a Private Use Network shall complete and submit the declaration in Section 22, Attachment L, Declaration of Private Use Network Net Generation Capacity Availability, to ERCOT by February 1 of each year, stating its projected annual changes in net generation capacity available to the ERCOT Transmission Grid for May 31 of the previous calendar year to May 31 of the current calendar year, and annual changes as of May 31 for the next ten subsequent years.  ERCOT will use the aggregated capacity forecasts for the Report on Capacity, Demand and Reserves in the ERCOT Region, pursuant to Section 3.2.6.2.2, Total Capacity Estimate.
10.3.3	TSP or DSP Metered Entities
10.3.3.1	Data Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP and DSP shall be responsible for the following:
(a)	Providing consumption data for each ESI ID and RID on at least a monthly basis according to the data timeliness and accuracy standards defined in this Section and in the SMOG;
(b)	Providing start date, stop date, ESI ID or RID, and consumption data in kWh as well as an identifier for “estimated” reads as applicable;
(c)	Submitting a single Demand value for each non-IDR ESI ID that has a Demand register to ERCOT if, and only if, a Demand value is required for TSP or DSP tariffs or for CR Customer billing.  If the CR and TSP or DSP do not require a Demand value, then the TSP or DSP shall not submit a Demand value to ERCOT even if the meter has a Demand register;
(d)	Validation, Editing, and Estimation of meter data (VEE) according to the standards in this Section before submitting data to the settlement process;
(e)	Calculating consumption for any unmetered services by ESI ID and submitting such data monthly to ERCOT, subject to ERCOT audit.  These calculations must be made pursuant to TSP and DSP-approved tariffs; and
(f)	Metering all Loads, unless the Load meets one of the following criteria:
(i)	Energy consumption by substation Facilities and equipment for the purpose of transporting electricity (e.g., substation transformers, fans, etc.).
(ii)	Unmetered energy consumption represented by an ERCOT-approved Load Profile; or
(iii)	Energy charge and discharge and associated losses for the ERCOT Board-approved storage devices installed as part of a transmission reliability project for the Presidio substation Facilities.
10.3.3.2	Retail Load Meter Splitting
(1)	Retail Service Delivery Points with Loads above 1 MW may split their actual meter data into a maximum of four consumption values with each value being assigned a unique ESI ID; provided, however, that if a Customer is using Provider of Last Resort (POLR) or the “Price-to-Beat” retail service, such Customer may not split its meter signal among multiple CRs through this Section.
10.3.3.2.1	Retail Customer Load Splitting Mechanism
(1)	Customer meter data may be split into separate ESI IDs by the installation of a programmable signal splitter that would take the master meter signal and split it into no more than four separate values that must at all times equal the total output of the master meter signal.  Splitting of Customer meter data must meet the following requirements:
(a)	The signal splitter may be programmed to split the Load in any way the Customer chooses, provided that such splitting results in positive Load;
(b)	The Customer, or its CR(s), shall provide the signal splitter and shall be responsible for all costs of installing, maintaining, and operating the signal splitter, any associated equipment, and communications;
(c)	The TSP or DSP shall be responsible for approving the specifications and installation of any signal splitting devices;
(d)	IDRs shall be required on the master Customer Load meter and each of the split channels for verification and settlement purposes;
(e)	The TSP or DSP metering system recording such split signals (four ESI IDs) may be required to be redundant if so provided by TSP or DSP tariffs;
(f)	The split signals must be recorded in Real-Time and cannot be altered or substituted later in time;
(g)	One Entity shall be designated to pay the total TSP and/or DSP charges for the Customer; and
(h)	Switching of CRs for the individual split-metered Customers shall comply with the registration procedures in Section 19, Texas Standard Electronic Transaction.
10.3.3.2.2	TSP and DSP Responsibilities Associated with Retail Customer Load Splitting
(1)	Each consumption value from a Customer Load split meter shall be assigned a separate ESI ID by the TSP or DSP.  Each ESI ID may be assigned to a separate CR.  The master meter may not be assigned an ESI ID.
(2)	The TSP or DSP shall send interval data for each ESI ID for the ERCOT settlement system.
(3)	The TSP or DSP shall be responsible for verifying that the sum of the split ESI ID IDR data equals the total IDR value from the master meter.
10.3.3.2.3	ERCOT Requirements for Retail Load Splitting
(1)	ERCOT shall settle all ESI IDs in the same manner.
(2)	ERCOT shall not receive or process the IDR data associated with the master meter.
10.3.3.3	Submission of Settlement Quality Meter Data to ERCOT
(1)	Settlement Quality Meter Data shall be submitted to ERCOT on a periodic cycle, but no later than monthly:  
(a) 	For provisioned Advanced Meters and Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) / Electric Cooperative (EC) Non-BUSIDRRQ IDRs, Settlement Quality Meter Data will be submitted using an ERCOT specified file format for the interval data only, which will be used for Settlement.  
(i)	The monthly non-interval total consumption and demand (if applicable) values for these ESI IDs shall be provided to ERCOT and LSEs using the appropriate Texas Standard Electronic Transactions (TX SETs) in order to effectuate the registration transactions outlined in Section 15, Customer Registration.
(ii)	These non-interval total consumption and demand values will not be used for Settlement. 
(b) 	For all other meters, Settlement Quality Meter Data will be submitted using the appropriate TX SET. 
(2)	Each TSP or DSP shall ensure that consumption meter data submitted to ERCOT is in intervals of:
(a)	15-minutes for those ESI IDs and RIDs served by IDRs; and
(b)	 Monthly or on an ERCOT-approved meter reading cycle for non-IDRs.
(3)	The Settlement Quality Meter Data submitted by TSP or DSP must be in kWh and kVArh values (as applicable).
10.3.3.3.1	Past Due Data Submission
(1)	ERCOT shall provide a report to the appropriate TSP and DSP for any ESI ID or RID for which consumption data has not been received in the past 38 days.  Upon receipt of the missing consumption data report, the TSP or DSP shall have two Business Days to submit the missing consumption data.
10.4	Certification of EPS Metering Facilities
(1)	Each Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and Distribution Service Provider (DSP) shall certify ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Metering Facilities in a manner approved by ERCOT.
10.4.1	Overview
(1)	This Section describes the steps that a TSP or DSP shall use to certify each EPS Metering Facility and the steps ERCOT shall use to approve each EPS Metering Facility.  This Section also describes the manner in which EPS Metering Facility approval requests must be made to ERCOT.
10.4.2	EPS Design Proposal Documentation Required from the TSP or DSP
(1)	Before installation of new EPS Meters, TSP or DSP shall provide ERCOT with an EPS Design Proposal of the Metering Facilities being considered for ERCOT approval as EPS Meter Facilities.  An “EPS Design Proposal” is the documentation required pursuant to Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG), Section 12, Attachment A, EPS Metering Design Proposal.  Included one line drawings must be dated, detailed, bear the current drawing revision number, and show all devices which contribute to the burden in the metering circuits.  Other information may also be required by ERCOT for review regarding the meter and related installation and Facilities; such additional information shall be promptly provided to ERCOT by the TSP or DSP upon request of ERCOT.
10.4.2.1	Approval or Rejection of an EPS Design Proposal for EPS Metering Facilities
(1)	ERCOT may unconditionally approve, conditionally approve, or reject an EPS Design Proposal.  
10.4.2.1.1	Unconditional Approval
(1)	If ERCOT unconditionally approves an EPS Design Proposal, then ERCOT shall promptly notify the TSP or DSP that the EPS Design Proposal has been approved.  The TSP or DSP may then commence installation of the EPS Metering Facilities in accordance with the EPS Design Proposal.
10.4.2.1.2	Conditional Approval
(1)	Notification of Conditional Approval:
If ERCOT conditionally approves an EPS Design Proposal, then ERCOT shall promptly notify the TSP or DSP that the EPS Design Proposal has been conditionally approved.  It shall set forth in such Notice the conditions on which approval is granted and the time period in which each such condition must be satisfied by the TSP or DSP.
(2)	Ability to Satisfy Conditions:
If the TSP or DSP disputes any condition imposed by ERCOT, the TSP or DSP must promptly notify ERCOT of its concerns and provide ERCOT with the reasons for its concerns.  If the TSP or DSP provides ERCOT such Notice, ERCOT may amend or withdraw any of the conditions on which it granted its approval or ERCOT may require the TSP or DSP to satisfy other conditions.  ERCOT and the TSP or DSP shall use good faith efforts to reach agreement on accomplishing the installation.
(3)	Notification of Satisfaction of Conditions:
The TSP or DSP shall promptly notify ERCOT when each condition in the approval has been satisfied and provide to ERCOT any information reasonably requested by ERCOT as evidence that such condition has been satisfied.
(4)	Confirmation of Satisfaction of Conditions:
If ERCOT determines that a condition has been satisfied, then ERCOT shall provide the TSP or DSP written confirmation that the condition has been satisfied.
(5)	Unsatisfied Conditions:
If ERCOT determines that a condition has not been satisfied, ERCOT shall notify the TSP or DSP that it does not consider the condition satisfied and shall set out in such Notice the reason(s) that it does not consider the condition satisfied.  If, after using good faith efforts, ERCOT and the TSP or DSP are unable to agree on whether the condition is satisfied, either Entity may refer the dispute to the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Procedures as described in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.
10.4.2.1.3	Rejection
(1)	If ERCOT rejects an EPS Design Proposal, then ERCOT shall promptly notify the TSP or DSP that the EPS Design Proposal has been rejected and shall set forth the reasons for its rejection.  The TSP or DSP shall submit to ERCOT a revised EPS Design Proposal after receiving such Notice.  If ERCOT rejects for a second time an EPS Design Proposal submitted by a TSP or DSP with respect to the same or similar Notice issued by ERCOT as described above, then ERCOT and the TSP or DSP shall use good faith efforts to reach agreement on the requirements and disputed items.  In the absence of agreement either Entity may refer the dispute to the ADR Procedures as described in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.
10.4.3	Site Certification Documentation Required from the TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector

(1)	A TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector shall complete an ERCOT site certification form for each set of EPS Metering Facilities that it inspects.  The site certification form is the official form used to document whether EPS Metering Facilities meet ERCOT criteria.
(2)	The TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector shall promptly notify ERCOT and document any discrepancy between ERCOT approved EPS Design Proposal on file and the actual Metering Facilities inspected by the TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector.  
(3)	The TSP or DSP shall provide the documents as outlined in SMOG for each set of EPS Metering Facilities being considered for ERCOT approval.
10.4.3.1	Review by ERCOT
(1)	ERCOT shall review the ERCOT site certification documentation prepared by the TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector within 45 days of receipt.  If ERCOT finds that this data is incomplete or demonstrates that the EPS Metering Facilities fail to meet the standards contained within this Section or the SMOG, ERCOT shall promptly provide written or electronic notice of the deficiencies to the TSP or DSP.
(2)	ERCOT shall notify the TSP or DSP of the approval of the Metering Facility.  ERCOT shall return a copy of the schematic drawings, and a copy of the ERCOT site certification form marked by ERCOT as approved.  ERCOT shall retain a copy of these documents.
10.4.3.2	Provisional Approval
(1)	If ERCOT finds that the documentation: provided by the TSP or DSP is incomplete or demonstrates that the EPS Metering Facility fails to meet the standards contained within this Section and SMOG; then ERCOT may, elect to issue a provisional approval for the Metering Facility.  The terms and conditions on which such provisional approval is issued shall be at ERCOT’s discretion and shall be defined for the TSP or DSP.  ERCOT shall not issue an approval until such time as all of the conditions of the provisional approval have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of ERCOT.  ERCOT shall post any provisional approvals on the ERCOT website on a quarterly basis.
10.4.3.3	Obligation to Maintain Approval
(1)	Once an EPS Metering Facility has been installed, it is the responsibility of the TSP or DSP to ensure that the EPS Metering Facility complies with the approval criteria referred to in this Section and the SMOG.
10.4.3.4	Revocation of Approval
(1)	ERCOT may revoke in full or in part any approval of Metering Facilities, including a provisional approval if:
(a)	ERCOT or a TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector demonstrates that all or part of the EPS Metering Facilities covered by that approval no longer meet the approval criteria for EPS Metering Facilities contained in this Section and the SMOG; and
(b)	ERCOT has given written Notice to the TSP or DSP stating that the identified EPS Metering Facilities do not meet the approval criteria and the reasons and that the TSP or DSP fails to correct the deficiency and satisfy ERCOT, within 30 days, that the EPS Metering Facilities meet the approval criteria.
(2)	If ERCOT revokes in full or part an approval of EPS Metering Facilities, the TSP or DSP may seek re-approval of the EPS Metering Facilities by requesting approval in accordance with this Section.
10.4.3.5	Changes to Approved EPS Metering Facilities
(1)	Each TSP and DSP shall notify ERCOT of any planned modifications or changes to be made to any EPS Metering Facilities that would affect the EPS Metering Facility’s approval, not less than ten Business Days prior to the intended implementation of the change.  Before the intended date of the change, ERCOT may request additional information from the TSP or DSP to demonstrate that the EPS Metering Facilities will still meet the applicable approval standards; the TSP or DSP shall promptly comply with such request for information.  ERCOT may at its discretion audit Metering Facilities to determine compliance.  The TSP or DSP shall provide ERCOT with meter specific program details, as downloaded from the meter, when the EPS Meter is programmed.
10.4.3.6	Confirmation of Certification
(1)	On the written request of ERCOT, the TSP or DSP shall provide ERCOT written or electronic confirmation that the Metering Facilities of each metered Entity that the TSP or DSP represents have been certified in accordance with this Section and the SMOG within five Business Days of receiving such a request from ERCOT.
10.5	TSP and DSP EPS Meter Inspectors
10.5.1	List of TSP and DSP EPS Meter Inspectors
(1)	ERCOT shall maintain a list of TSP and DSP ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter Inspectors, and details related to ERCOT training to become a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) EPS Meter Inspector.
10.5.2	EPS Meter Inspector Approval Process
10.5.2.1	TSP and DSP Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP and DSP shall ensure that personnel performing EPS Meter Facility certification duties are approved EPS Meter Inspectors and comply with this Section and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG).  A TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector is required to complete an ERCOT EPS Meter Inspector training session. 
(2)	The TSP and DSP shall submit to ERCOT the following information for individuals performing EPS Metering Facility certification.
(a)	Name of individual;
(b)	Time period the individual has been testing Generation Resource or transmission interconnect metering points;
(c)	TSP or DSP statement indicating that the individual has the technical expertise to perform EPS Metering Facility certification; and,
(d)	Additional documentation as required by ERCOT.
10.5.2.2	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall hold EPS Meter Inspector training sessions on a regularly scheduled basis.  Sessions must include information on the following:
(a)	Market responsibilities of EPS Meter Inspectors;
(b)	Documentation requirements for the site certification;
(c)	Overview of EPS Metering Facilities related topics and documents;
(d)	Protocols requirements;
(e)	SMOG requirements; and
(f)	Technical requirements.
(2)	ERCOT shall issue a certificate of attendance to individuals upon completion of the EPS Meter Inspector training sessions.
(3)	ERCOT shall have the authority to revoke an individual’s involvement with EPS Metering Facility certification.  
10.6	Auditing and Testing of Metering Facilities
10.6.1	EPS Meter Entities
10.6.1.1	ERCOT Requirement for Audits and Tests
(1)	ERCOT shall have the right to audit any ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Metering Facility that it considers necessary or to request and witness a test carried out by a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) EPS Meter Inspector.
10.6.1.2	TSP and DSP Testing Requirements for EPS Metering Facilities
(1)	At a minimum, the TSP and DSP EPS Meter Inspector shall conduct testing of EPS Meters on an annual basis, within the same month of each year as the previous year’s test.  Metering Facilities used in the ERCOT system for settlement must be tested pursuant to the TSP or DSP tariffs, the Settlement Metering Operating Guide and these Protocols.
(2)	Instrument transformers used in settlement metering circuits must be tested per the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) C12.1, Code for Electricity Metering, and the following guidelines:
(a)	Magnetic Instrument Transformers do not require periodic testing;
(b)	Coupling Capacitor Voltage Transformers (CCVTs) shall be tested for accuracy:
(i)	By the end of the year in which the fifth anniversary of the previous test occurs; or
(ii)	By the end of the year in which the sixth anniversary of the previous test occurs, if the previous test occurred during the fourth quarter of the year. 
(3)	ERCOT may determine that periodic testing of CCVTs is not required once these devices have been proven to be stable.  If the devices have shown themselves to be unstable, ERCOT may discontinue the use of these devices for settlement purposes.
10.6.1.3	Failure to Comply
(1)	If an EPS Metering Facility fails to comply with ERCOT’s audit or test procedures, ERCOT shall issue a warning to the TSP or DSP responsible for such Metering Facilities.  If the TSP or DSP fails to comply with ERCOT’s recommendations in a reasonable time, as determined by ERCOT, ERCOT shall notify the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) or the appropriate Governmental Authority.
10.6.1.4	Requests by Market Participants
(1)	Market Participants shall follow appropriate Governmental Authority rules for requesting the testing of Metering Facilities.
10.6.2	TSP and DSP Metered Entities
10.6.2.1	Requirement for Audit and Testing
(1)	Audit and Testing by a TSP or DSP
Each TSP or DSP shall conduct (or engage a qualified Entity to conduct) audits and tests of the Metering Facilities of the TSP or DSP Metered Entities that it represents to ensure compliance with all applicable requirements of any relevant Governmental Authority.  Each TSP and DSP shall undertake any other actions that are reasonably necessary to ensure the accuracy and integrity of the meter data.
(2)	Audit and Testing Requests by an affected Market Participant 
	Subject to any applicable Governmental Authority requirements, an affected Market Participant shall have the right to witness an audit or test carried out by the TSP or DSP or its authorized representative.
10.6.2.2	TSP and DSP Requirement to Certify per Governmental Authorities
(1)	If a Governmental Authority has authority to certify meter installations, then the TSP or DSP shall comply with such regulations.
10.7	ERCOT Request for Installation of EPS Metering Facilities
10.7.1	Additional EPS Metering Installations
(1)	If ERCOT determines that there is a potential need to install additional ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Metering Facilities on the ERCOT System, ERCOT shall notify the relevant Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) in writing or electronically.  ERCOT’s Notice must include the following information:
(a)	The location of the meter point at which the additional EPS Metering Facilities are required;
(b)	The projected installation date by which the relevant EPS Metering Facilities should be installed;
(c)	The reason for the need to install the additional EPS Metering Facilities; and
(d)	Any other information that ERCOT considers relevant.
(2)	A TSP or DSP that is notified by ERCOT of the potential need to install additional EPS Metering Facilities must:
(a)	Give ERCOT written confirmation of receipt of  Notice within three Business Days of receiving such Notice;
(b)	Submit an EPS Design Proposal to ERCOT within 45 Business Days of receiving such Notice.  
(3)	The TSP or DSP may request a waiver to install additional Metering Facilities.
10.7.2	Approval or Rejection of Waiver Request for Installation of EPS Metering Facilities
(1)	ERCOT may approve, or reject a waiver request at ERCOT’s sole discretion.  
10.7.2.1	Approval
(1)	If ERCOT approves a waiver request, then ERCOT shall promptly notify the TSP or DSP. 
10.7.2.2	Rejection
(1)	If ERCOT rejects a waiver request, then ERCOT shall promptly notify the TSP or DSP and shall set forth the reasons for its rejection.  The TSP or DSP may submit to ERCOT a revised waiver request within 14 Business Days of receiving such Notice.  If ERCOT rejects for a second time a waiver request submitted by a TSP or DSP with respect to the same or similar Notice issued by ERCOT as described above, then ERCOT and the TSP or DSP shall use good faith efforts to reach agreement on the requirements and disputed items.  In the absence of agreement either Entity may refer the dispute to the ADR Procedures as described in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds.
10.8	Maintenance of Metering Facilities
10.8.1	EPS Meters
10.8.1.1	Duty to Maintain EPS Metering Facilities
(1)	Each Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and Distribution Service Provider (DSP) shall maintain its ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Metering Facilities to meet the standards prescribed by this Section and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG).  If the EPS Metering Facilities of a TSP or DSP require maintenance to ensure that they operate in accordance with the requirements of this Section, SMOG, or any Governmental Authority, then the TSP or DSP shall notify ERCOT of the need for such maintenance.  The TSP or DSP shall also inform ERCOT five Business Days in advance of the time period during which such maintenance is expected to occur.  During that period, the TSP or DSP, or its authorized representative, after notifying ERCOT, shall be entitled to access sealed EPS Metering Facilities to which access is required in order to undertake the required maintenance.  
(2)	Resource Entities shall be responsible for the maintenance of EPS Metering Facilities owned by the Resource Entity as prescribed by this Section and the SMOG.   
10.8.1.2	EPS Metering Facilities Repairs
(1)	If an EPS Metering Facility requires repairs to ensure that it operates in accordance with the requirements of this Section, then the TSP or DSP shall immediately notify ERCOT of the need for repairing such Metering Facility.  If, however, operating conditions are such that it is not possible for the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) to notify ERCOT of the need for repairs, then the TDSP may make the necessary repairs and then notify ERCOT of the repairs prior to the end of the next Business Day.

(a)	Where no Back-up Meter exists or Back-up Meter data is unavailable, the TSP or DSP shall ensure that the metering point is repaired and operational within 12 hours of problem detection.  ERCOT may, at its discretion, reduce the repair timeline from 12 to six hours if the meter data is required for Real-Time Market (RTM) Settlements on the same day or an upcoming ERCOT non-Business Day.
(b)	Where a functional and operational Back-up Meter exists, the TSP or DSP shall ensure that the metering point is repaired and operational within five Business Days of problem detection.
(c)	Resource Entities that own a portion of the facilities associated with the EPS Meter shall be responsible for meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
10.8.2	TSP or DSP Metered Entities
(1)	Each TSP and DSP shall maintain its Metering Facilities in accordance with the requirements of the relevant Governmental Authorities and according to this Section.
10.9	Standards for Metering Facilities
(1)	For Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and Distribution Service Provider (DSP) Metered Entities, an Interval Data Recorder (IDR) Meter is required on any of the following locations/sites:
(a)	Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) or External Load Serving Entity (ELSE) metering points used to determine the total Load for that NOIE or ELSE; and
(b)	Block Load Transfer (BLT) metering points, registered for Settlements in accordance with Section 6.5.9.5.1, Registration and Posting of BLT Points.
(2)	For TSP and DSP Metered Entities, an IDR is required on any of the following locations/sites: 
(a)	Load Resources participating in the Ancillary Services markets, with the exception of Aggregate Load Resources (ALRs) for which statistical sampling is used to validate telemetry, as detailed in Section 22, Attachment O, Requirements for Aggregate Load Resource Participation in the ERCOT Markets;
(b)	Settlement Only Distribution Generators (SODGs); and
(c)	Locations meeting IDR requirements defined in Section 18, Load Profiling.
10.9.1	ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters	
(1)	The TSP or DSP for ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meters shall ensure that the EPS Metering Facilities comply with this Section and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG).  This requirement does not apply to Resource Entity-owned Metering Facilities used to measure, calculate, or telemeter Energy Storage Resource (ESR) auxiliary Load pursuant to Section 10.2.4, Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR Auxiliary Load Values.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	The TSP or DSP for ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meters shall ensure that the EPS Metering Facilities comply with this Section and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG) except that any EPS Metering Facilities owned by the Resource Entity shall be the responsibility of the Resource Entity to maintain acceptable performance.  This requirement does not apply to Resource Entity-owned Metering Facilities used to measure, calculate, or telemeter Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS), or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS) auxiliary Load pursuant to Section 10.2.4, Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR, SODESS, or SOTESS Auxiliary Load Values.
(2)	IDRs used for settlement of EPS Metering Facilities shall:
(a)	Capture energy consumption and/or production in increments consistent with ERCOT defined Settlement Interval;
(b)	Be able to capture energy in increments of five minutes (excluding memory allocation) for new and replacement IDRs used for settlement;
(c)	Provide interval data for daily polling on a schedule that supports ERCOT’s requirements (typically a daily cycle);
(d)	Be capable of having data retrieved via telemetry by Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS);
(e)	Have battery or other energy-storage back-up to maintain time during power outages;
(f)	Have remote time synchronization capability compatible with the MDAS;
(g)	Maintain meter clocks on a time reference standard that enables ERCOT MDAS to maintain the IDR data on Central Prevailing Time (CPT).  The meter clock shall be synchronized to within +/- 1% of the Settlement Interval when compared with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Atomic Clock.  ERCOT shall perform the time synchronization for meters at the time of the interrogation if the meter is outside tolerance; and
(h)	Divide each hour into Settlement Intervals ending as follows:
XX:15:00
XX:30:00
XX:45:00
XX:00:00
10.9.2	TSP or DSP Metered Entities
(1)	IDRs used for settlement of TSP or DSP Metered Entities shall:
(a)	Capture energy consumption in increments consistent with, or in fractions of, ERCOT-defined settlement time interval;
(b)	Provide interval data on a schedule that supports the requirements of final Settlement;
(c)	Have battery or other energy-storage back-up to maintain time during power outages;
(d)	Have time synchronization capability;
(e)	Maintain meter clocks on a time reference that enables the TSP or DSP to submit data on the CPT.  The meter clock shall be synchronized to within at least +/- 5% of the Settlement Interval when compared to the NIST Atomic Clock;
(f)	Have data aggregated to the appropriate Settlement Interval time block by the TSP or DSP prior to the data being sent to ERCOT if recorded at increments less than the ERCOT defined Settlement Interval;
(g)	Be able to capture energy in increments of five minutes (excluding memory allocation) for new and replacement IDRs used for Settlement;
(h)	Divide each hour into Settlement Intervals ending as follows:
XX:15:00
XX:30:00
XX:45:00
XX:00:00

(i)	IDR data submitted to ERCOT for Operating Days January 1, 2003, or later must contain only whole days with start times beginning at 0000 and stop times ending at 2359.
10.9.3	Failure to Comply with Standards
(1)	If the TSP or DSP fails to comply with the standards for EPS Metering Facilities referred to in this Section and the SMOG, then ERCOT shall notify the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) or the appropriate Governmental Authority.
10.10	Security of Meter Data
10.10.1	EPS Meters
(1)	A Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) is responsible for data security of the ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Metering Facilities on their system.  This responsibility extends to third-party contracts and access to EPS Metering Facilities.
(2)	A TSP, DSP or any Entity authorized to poll EPS Meters may not issue any EPS Meter programming passwords to any Market Participant.
10.10.1.1	TSP and DSP Data Security Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP and DSP shall:

(a)	Maintain and modify the passwords for programming and read access to EPS Meters;
(b)	Provide the appropriate password access to ERCOT, which will allow ERCOT to synchronize the meter clock;
(c)	Establish any other security requirements for accessing the EPS Meters so as to ensure the security of those meters and their meter data;
(d)	Coordinate any EPS Meter programming parameter changes with ERCOT according to this Section, including informing the Load or Resource Entity of any changes to the meter;
(e)	Upon request of the Resource Entity that represents an EPS metered facility, provide the EPS meter “read only” password to such Resource Entity for such facility and other EPS metered facility required to calculate their Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Load, to the extent that such provision does not violate the Customer service and protection provisions of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules; and
(f)	Modify the “read only” password for EPS meters when a Resource Entity that represents a facility requests a change due to data security reasons, provided that such modification does not violate the Customer service and protection provisions of the PUCT Substantive Rules.
10.10.1.2	ERCOT Data Security Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT may request that TSP or DSP alter the password and other requirements for accessing EPS Meters, as it deems necessary.
10.10.1.3	Resource Entity Data Security Responsibilities
(1)	A Resource Entity must request that the TSP or DSP modify the EPS Meter “read only” password for a facility when the Resource Entity relationships that affect EPS Meter data security change.  Such request must include the reason for the request.
10.10.1.4	Third Party Access Withdrawn
(1)	If, in the reasonable opinion of ERCOT, access granted to a third party interferes with or impedes ERCOT’s ability to poll any EPS Meter, ERCOT may require immediate withdrawal of any access granted to such third party.  Separate access through additional communications ports may be allowed so long as it does not interfere with ERCOT’s ability to communicate with the meter.
10.10.1.5	Meter Site Security
(1)	EPS Metering Facilities and secondary devices that could have any impact on the performance of the EPS Metering Facilities must be sealed to the extent practicable.
(2)	ERCOT shall provide each TSP and DSP with uniquely numbered seals to be used by the TSP or DSP EPS Meter Inspector to seal EPS Meters and EPS Meter test switches.  Procedures for seal use shall be in accordance with this Section and the SMOG.
10.10.2	TSP or DSP Metered Entities
(1)	Security for TSP and DSP polled meters and meter data shall be the responsibility of the TSP or DSP. Each TSP and DSP shall maintain polled meters in accordance with applicable Governmental Authority rules and regulations.  The TSP and DSP shall ensure that only Customer-approved Market Participants have access to the Customer meter.
10.11	Validating, Editing, and Estimating of Meter Data
10.11.1	EPS Meters
(1)	The raw meter data that ERCOT retrieves from ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meters must be processed by Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS) using the Validating, Editing, and Estimating (VEE) procedures published in Section 11, Data Acquisition and Aggregation, and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG) in order to produce Settlement Quality Meter Data. During periods for which no primary EPS Meter data is available, ERCOT shall use the backup meter data or substitute estimated usage data for that metered Entity using estimation procedures referred to in these Protocols and the SMOG.  This data shall be used by ERCOT in its settlement and billing process.
10.11.2	Obligation to Assist
(1)	At the request of ERCOT, a Transmission Service Provider (TSP), Distribution Service Provider (DSP) and Market Participant shall promptly assist ERCOT in correcting or replacing defective data from EPS Meters and in detecting and correcting underlying causes for such defects.  Such assistance shall be rendered in a timely manner so that the settlement process is not delayed.
10.11.3	TSP or DSP Settlement Meters
(1)	The TSP and DSP shall provide ERCOT with Settlement Quality Meter Data for the TSP or DSP Settlement Meters on its system and shall ensure that at a minimum the Validation, Editing and Estimating (VEE) requirements as specified in the Uniform Business Practices (UBP) standard for VEE have been properly performed on such data.  ERCOT shall not perform any VEE on the Settlement Quality Meter Data it receives from TSP or DSP.
(2)	The following UBP manual validation processes are exempt for Interval Data:
(a)	Spike Check; and
(b)	Reactive channel check for kWh data.
10.12	Communications
10.12.1	ERCOT Acquisition of ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter Data 
(1)	ERCOT shall acquire ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter data via the following communication links:
(a)	ERCOT private communication network established by ERCOT for ERCOT Real-Time metered Entities; or
(b)	Other ERCOT-approved communication technology provided by the Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP).
10.12.2	TSP or DSP Meter Data Submittal to ERCOT
(1)	TSP and DSPs shall submit meter consumption data to ERCOT through a standard data interface into the Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS).  In order to submit meter consumption data, a TSP or DSP shall use an automated system with an ERCOT-approved and tested interface to MDAS.
10.12.3	ERCOT Distribution of Settlement Quality Meter Data
(1)	ERCOT shall distribute Settlement Quality Meter Data to Market Participants:
(a)	Whenever a TSP or DSP submits meter consumption data to ERCOT via a Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET), ERCOT will forward the consumption data and other information for the Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) to the Competitive Retailer (CR) indicated in the transaction.  ERCOT relies upon the TSP or DSP to ensure that the CR included in the transaction is the appropriate CR for the meter data timeframe.  ERCOT does not further validate the accuracy of the CR indicated.
(b)	Whenever a TSP or DSP submits meter data to ERCOT via an ERCOT specified file format for Advanced Meters, upon certified request by a Market Participant, ERCOT shall make that data available to the Market Participant via Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.
(c)	On Request – A Market Participant may submit an electronic request via the MIS Certified Area for specific meter consumption data.  ERCOT will receive and validate the request and, if appropriate, automatically forward the appropriate information to the Market Participant.
10.13	Meter Identification
(1)	The device id used to identify an ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter shall be unique for such meters on the ERCOT System.  ERCOT shall maintain a master list of device ids and shall notify each Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and Distribution Service Provider (DSP) if the device id selected has been used elsewhere in Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS).
10.14	Exemptions from Compliance to Metering Protocols
10.14.1	Authority to Grant Exemptions
(1)	ERCOT may grant on a case by case basis, exemptions from compliance on a temporary basis until new arrangements can be completed in accordance with the guidelines as listed below.  Any permanent exemption to this Section requires approval by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and the ERCOT Board.  Any permanent exemption shall be subject to periodic review and revocation by the ERCOT Board.
10.14.2	Guidelines for Granting Temporary Exemptions
(1)	ERCOT shall use the following process when considering applications for temporary exemptions from compliance with this Section and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG).
(a)	Publication of Guidelines:  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the general guidelines that it will use when considering applications for exemptions within five Business Days of a change of guidelines, so as to achieve consistency in its reasoning and decision-making and to give prospective applicants an indication of whether an application for exemption may be considered favorably.
(b)	Publication of Decision:  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the application for exemption and whether the application was approved or rejected by ERCOT and the reasons for rejecting the application, if applicable, on a quarterly basis.
10.14.3	Procedure for Applying for Exemptions
(1)	All applications to ERCOT for exemptions from compliance with the requirements of this Section must be submitted in writing.  ERCOT shall confirm receipt of an application within three Business Days of receipt.  For temporary exemptions, ERCOT shall decide whether to grant or reject the exemption within 45 Business Days of receipt.  For permanent exemptions, ERCOT shall forward the application to TAC for review at the next scheduled meeting for which appropriate Notice can be made.  At any time during the application process, ERCOT may require the applicant to provide additional information in support of its application.
(2)	The applicant shall provide such additional information to ERCOT within five Business Days of receiving the request or within such other period as ERCOT may specify.  If ERCOT requests additional information more than 40 Business Days after the date on which it received the application, ERCOT shall have an additional seven  Business Days after receiving that additional information in which to consider the application.  If the applicant does not provide the additional information requested, then ERCOT shall reject the application, in which case it will notify the applicant that its application has been rejected for failure to provide the additional information.
10.14.3.1	Information to be Included in the Application
(1)	The application for exemption to ERCOT shall include:
(a)	A detailed description of the exemption sought. including specific reference to the relevant Section(s) of these Protocols or the SMOG authorizing ERCOT to grant the exemption, and the Metering Facilities to which the exemption will apply;
(b)	A detailed statement of the reason for seeking the exemption, including any supporting documentation;
(c)	Details of the Entity(s) to which the exemption will apply;
(d)	Details of the location to which the exemption will apply;
(e)	Details of the period of time for which the exemption will apply, including the proposed start and finish dates of that period; and
(f)	Any other information requested by ERCOT.
	

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 11:  Data Acquisition and Aggregation


April 1, 2025




 
11	Data Acquisition and Aggregation	11-1
11.1	Data Acquisition and Aggregation from ERCOT Polled Settlement Metered Entities	11-1
11.1.1	Overview	11-1
11.1.2	ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Data Collection	11-1
11.1.3	ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Time Synchronization	11-1
11.1.4	ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Data Validation, Editing, and Estimation	11-1
11.1.5	Loss Compensation of ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Data	11-2
11.1.6	ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meter Netting	11-3
11.1.7	ERCOT Polled Settlement Generation Meter Splitting	11-7
11.1.8	Correction of ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Data for Non-Opt-In Transmission Losses	11-8
11.1.9	Treatment of Non-Opt-In Entity or External Load Serving Entity Radially Connected Entities	11-8
11.1.10	Treatment of ERCOT Polled Settlement Load Data	11-8
11.1.11	Treatment of ERCOT Polled Settlement Resource ID Data	11-9
11.1.12	Treatment of ERCOT-Polled Settlement Energy Storage Resource Load Data	11-9
11.2	Data Acquisition from Transmission Service Providers and/or Distribution Service Providers	11-10
11.2.1	Overview	11-10
11.2.2	Data Provision and Verification of Non ERCOT Polled Settlement Metered Points	11-10
11.3	Electric Service Identifier Synchronization	11-10
11.3.1	Electric Service Identifier Service History and Usage	11-10
11.3.2	Variance Process	11-11
11.3.3	Alternative Dispute Resolution	11-11
11.4	Load Data Aggregation	11-11
11.4.1	Estimation of Missing Data	11-11
11.4.2	Non-Interval Missing Consumption Data Estimation	11-11
11.4.3	Interval Consumption Data Estimation	11-13
11.4.3.1	Weather Sensitive Proxy Day Method	11-13
11.4.3.2	Non-Weather Sensitive Proxy Day Method	11-14
11.4.3.3	Interval Data Recorder Estimation Reporting	11-15
11.4.4	Data Aggregation Processing for Actual Data	11-15
11.4.4.1	Application of Profiles to Non-Interval Data	11-15
11.4.4.2	Load Reduction for Excess PhotoVoltaic and Wind Distributed Renewable Generation	11-16
11.4.4.3	Load Reduction for Excess from Other Distributed Generation	11-17
11.4.5	Adjustment of Consumption Data for Losses	11-18
11.4.6	Unaccounted for Energy Calculation and Allocation	11-19
11.4.6.1	Calculation of ERCOT-Wide Unaccounted For Energy	11-19
11.4.6.2	Allocation of Unaccounted For Energy	11-20
11.4.6.3	Unaccounted For Energy Allocation to Unaccounted For Energy Categories	11-20
11.4.6.4	Unaccounted For Energy Allocation to Load Serving Entities within Unaccounted For Energy Categories	11-21
11.5	Data Aggregation	11-22
11.5.1	Aggregate Load Data	11-22
11.5.1.1	Aggregated Load Data Posting/Availability	11-22
11.5.1.2	TSP and/or DSP Load Data Posting/Availability	11-23
11.5.2	Generation Meter Data Aggregation	11-23
11.5.2.1	Participant Specific Generation Data Posting/Availability	11-24
11.5.2.2	General Public Data Posting/Availability	11-24
11.6	Unaccounted For Energy Analysis	11-25
11.6.1	Overview	11-25
11.6.2	Annual Unaccounted For Energy Analysis Report	11-26
 
11	DATA ACQUISITION AND AGGREGATION
11.1	Data Acquisition and Aggregation from ERCOT Polled Settlement Metered Entities
11.1.1	Overview
(1)	ERCOT will collect interval data from all ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) metered Entities according to Section 10, Metering.  Collection of data from EPS metered Entities will be done via the Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS).  This data will be validated, edited, estimated, adjusted, netted, loss corrected, split, and aggregated as necessary to provide the required Settlement inputs.
11.1.2	ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Data Collection
(1)	ERCOT will perform remote interrogation of EPS metered Entities to provide the necessary data for the Settlement process.  Upon initiation of connection with the meter, the MDAS will verify that the meter’s internal Interval Data Recorder (IDR) protocol (Translation Interface Module setting) and the device identifier programmed into the IDR match the master file database stored in the MDAS.  If remote-polling fails for any reason, ERCOT will work closely with the Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and/or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) to resolve data collection problems within the time frame defined in Section 10, Metering.
11.1.3	ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Time Synchronization
(1)	ERCOT will update the clock of any EPS meter that falls outside the threshold defined in Section 10, Metering of these Protocols.  ERCOT will notify the TSP and/or DSP regarding any meter that is determined to be inconsistent in its timekeeping function.  The TSP and/or DSP will facilitate correction of this problem within the time frame detailed in Section 10.
11.1.4	ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Data Validation, Editing, and Estimation
(1)	After EPS time synchronization has been completed and interval meter data has been retrieved, ERCOT will determine if the data is valid.  The validation process will include, but not be limited to, the following tests:
(a)	Flagging of intervals with missing data;
(b)	Exception reporting if the total number of zero values for any channel exceeds the tolerance limit;
(c)	Exception reporting if the total number of power outage intervals exceeds the tolerance limit;
(d)	Channel level exception reporting if any single interval breaches the upper or lower threshold of the limit;
(e)	Channel level validation of the percent change between two consecutive intervals being greater than the established tolerance limit;
(f)	Data overlap validation test, which rejects validations when the current interrogation of data overlaps data previously collected;
(g)	Channel level energy tolerance test, which reports exceptions of total energy accumulated from the interval data not being equivalent to the energy calculated from the meter register’s start and stop readings;
(h)	Validation that the number of expected intervals equals the number of actual intervals collected during the interrogation process; and
(i)	Validation of data between primary, backup and check meters where available.
(2)	ERCOT will perform editing and estimation of EPS meter data according to Section 10, Metering.  The validation process occurs each time data is collected from a meter.
11.1.5	Loss Compensation of ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Data
(1)	Adjustments will be made to actual metered consumption to accommodate the energy consumption related to line and transformation losses to the Point of Interconnection (POI) with the ERCOT Transmission Grid in accordance with Section 10.3.2.2, Loss Compensation of EPS Meter Data.  These adjustments are intended specifically to correct the metered consumption when the meter is not located at the POI with the ERCOT Transmission Grid.
(2)	The preferred method for loss compensation and correction is by programming of the meter.  Recognizing that some meters may not have the ability to perform internal compensation computations, ERCOT’s Data Aggregation System (DAS) will have the ability to perform approved loss compensation as necessary.
(3)	TSPs and/or DSPs requesting loss compensation for a specific meter will comply with Section 10, Metering, and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide (SMOG).  ERCOT will provide a compensation mechanism based upon a single percentage value submitted by the TSP and/or DSP and approved by ERCOT.  The loss compensation percentage value will remain in place and will be applied to all intervals of data until such time as the TSP and/or DSP submits, and ERCOT approves, revised loss compensation values.  The loss compensation percentage values should not be changed more than once annually.
11.1.6	ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meter Netting
(1)	As allowed by Section 10, Metering, of these Protocols, ERCOT will perform the approved netting schemes, which sum the meters at a given Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) site.  
(2)	Both Load consumption and generation production meters will be combined together to obtain a total amount of Load or generation.
(3)	For an ESR site with Wholesale Storage Load (WSL):
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	For an ESR site:
(a)	WSL is measured by the corresponding EPS Meter, except that when a Resource Entity for an ESR communicates its auxiliary Load value to the EPS Meter, WSL is calculated by subtracting the auxiliary Load from the total Load measured by the corresponding EPS Meter.  If the calculated auxiliary Load is greater than the total Load, WSL shall be zero. 
(b)	For WSL that is metered behind the POI metering point, the WSL will be added back into the POI metering point to determine the net flows for the POI metering point.
(c)	For WSL that is separately metered at the POI, the WSL will not be included in the determination of whether the generation site is net generation or net Load for the purpose of Settlement.
(4)	For an ESR that has separately metered its charging Load, but elects not to receive WSL treatment, the Non-WSL ESR Charging Load for the 15-minute interval shall be determined using the metered ESR charging Load.
[NPRR1188:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	For a single POI Generation Resource site that includes an ESR whose charging Load is not receiving WSL treatment or includes a Controllable Load Resource (CLR):
(a)	The portion of Non-WSL ESR Charging Load or CLR Load supplied from the grid will be adjusted for Distribution Losses, Transmission Losses, and Unaccounted for Energy (UFE);
(b)	The portion of Non-WSL ESR Charging Load or CLR Load supplied from the co-located generation will not be adjusted for Distribution Losses, Transmission Losses, and UFE;
(c)	For RTAML, 4-CP, and Load Ratio Share (LRS) volumes, only the Non-WSL ESR Charging Load or CLR Load supplied from the grid (after loss and UFE adjustment) shall be included;
(d)	For Section 6.6.3.1, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Resource Node, (the Non-WSL ESR Charging Load or CLR Load shall be the Load supplied from the grid (after loss and UFE adjustment) plus the Non-WSL ESR Charging Load or CLR Load supplied from the co-located generation;
(e)	An Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) is required for each ESR and CLR and the unadjusted energy supplied from the grid will be allocated to each ESI ID.
(f)	For sites with multiple ESRs or CLRs, the unadjusted energy supplied from the grid will be allocated to each ESI ID based upon load ratio share using metered Non-WSL ESR Charging Load or CLR Load or calculated Non-WSL ESR Charging Load; and
(g)	For a single POI Generation Resource site that includes an ESR that has separately metered its charging Load, the Non-WSL ESR Charging Load for the 15-minute interval shall be determined using the metered ESR Charging Load.
(5)	For an ESR that has not separately metered its charging Load, or has forfeited WSL treatment pursuant to paragraph (3) of Section 10.2.4, Resource Entity Calculation and Telemetry of ESR Auxiliary Load Values, the Non-WSL ESR Charging Load for the 15-minute interval shall be equal to the total metered ESR Load minus auxiliary Load, where auxiliary Load is calculated as the greater of the following:
(a)	The lesser of the total metered ESR Load or X MWh, where X is calculated as 15% of the ESR’s nameplate capacity multiplied by 0.25; or
(b)	15% of the total metered ESR Load for the 15-minute interval.
[NPRR1188:  Insert paragraph (6) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(6)	For a single POI Generation Resource site that includes a CLR, CLR Load shall be metered with an EPS Meter and the metered energy will be considered as Generation Resource production to determine the net flows for Settlement of the corresponding generation site.

[NPRR995:  Insert paragraphs (6) and (7) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(6)	For a Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS) or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS) that has been approved for WSL treatment and has a single POI or Service Delivery Point:
(a)	For withdrawals from the ERCOT System consisting of only WSL or WSL in combination with auxiliary Load:
(i)	WSL is measured by the corresponding EPS Meter, except when a Resource Entity communicates its auxiliary Load value to the EPS Meter, WSL is calculated by subtracting the auxiliary Load from the total Load measured by the corresponding EPS Meter.  If the calculated auxiliary Load is greater than the total Load, WSL shall be set to zero. 
(ii)	For measured or calculated WSL that is behind the POI or Service Delivery Point, the WSL will be added back into the POI or Service Delivery Point metering point to determine the net flows for the POI or Service Delivery Point metering point.
(b)	For withdrawals from the ERCOT System that include Load other than WSL Load or auxiliary Load:
(i)	The charging Load is measured by the corresponding EPS Meter, except that when the Resource Entity communicates its auxiliary Load value to the EPS Meter, the charging Load is calculated by subtracting the auxiliary Load from the total SODESS or SOTESS Load measured by the corresponding EPS Meter.  If the calculated auxiliary Load is greater than the total SODESS or SOTESS Load, the charging Load shall be set to zero. 
(ii)	Where injections are exclusively the result of generation from an SODESS or SOTESS, the WSL quantity shall be determined through the use of a generation accumulator, which is calculated as the accumulated output measured at the POI or Service Delivery Point minus the accumulated charging Load receiving WSL treatment.  The charging Load that is less than or equal to the generation accumulator will be settled as WSL for each 15-minute interval.
(iii)	Where injections are the result of a combination of SODESS or SOTESS and non-SODESS or non-SOTESS generation, the output channel of the EPS Meter that measures charging Load is required to be used for Settlement.  For these sites, the WSL quantity shall be determined through the use of a generation accumulator, which is calculated as the lesser of (i) the accumulated SODESS or SOTESS output or (ii) the accumulated output measured at the POI or Service Delivery Point minus the accumulated charging Load receiving WSL treatment.  The charging Load that is less than or equal to the generation accumulator will be settled as WSL for each 15-minute interval.
(iv)	For measured or calculated charging Load that is behind the POI or Service Delivery Point, the charging Load will be added back into the POI or Service Delivery Point metering point to determine the net flows for the POI or Service Delivery Point metering point.
(7)	For an SODESS or SOTESS that either has not elected or has not been approved for WSL treatment and has a single POI or Service Delivery Point:
(a)	For withdrawals from the ERCOT System consisting of only charging Load or charging Load in combination with auxiliary Load, the Non-WSL Settlement Only Charging Load for the 15-minute Settlement Interval shall be determined as follows:
(i)	The metered charging Load that would otherwise be eligible for WSL; or
(ii)	The total metered SODESS or SOTESS Load minus auxiliary Load, where auxiliary Load is calculated as the greater of the following:
(A)	The lesser of the total metered Load or X MWh, where X is calculated as 15% of the nameplate capacity of the ESS multiplied by 0.25; or
(B)	15% of the total SODESS or SOTESS metered Load. 
(b)	For withdrawals from the ERCOT System that include Load other than Non-WSL Settlement Only Charging Load or auxiliary Load, the Non-WSL Settlement Only Charging Load for the 15-minute Settlement Interval shall be determined as follows:
(i)	Where injections are exclusively the result of generation from an SODESS or SOTESS, the Non-WSL Settlement Only Charging Load quantity shall be determined through the use of a generation accumulator, which is calculated as the accumulated output measured at the POI or Service Delivery Point minus the metered or calculated charging Load determined in option (A) or (B) below:
(A)	Where the charging Load is separately metered, the accumulated metered charging Load that would otherwise be eligible for WSL; or
(B)	Where the charging Load is not separately metered, the accumulated total metered SODESS or SOTESS Load minus auxiliary Load, where auxiliary Load is calculated as the greater of the following:
(1)	The lesser of the total SODESS or SOTESS metered Load or X MWh, where X is calculated as 15% of the nameplate capacity of the SODESS or SOTESS multiplied by 0.25; or 
(2)	15% of the total SODESS or SOTESS metered Load. 
(ii)	Where injections are the result of a combination of generation from SODESS or SOTESS and other generating facilities, the output channel of the EPS Meter that measures charging Load is required to be used for Settlement.  For these sites, the Non-WSL Settlement Only Charging Load quantity shall be determined through the use of a generation accumulator, which is calculated as the lesser of (a) the accumulated SODESS or SOTESS output or (b) the accumulated output measured at the POI or Service Delivery Point minus:
(A)	Where the charging Load is separately metered, the accumulated metered charging Load that would otherwise be eligible for WSL; or
(B)	Where the charging Load is not separately metered, the accumulated total metered SODESS or SOTESS Load minus auxiliary Load, where auxiliary Load is calculated as the greater of the following:
(1)	The lesser of the total metered Load or X MWh, where X is calculated as 15% of the nameplate capacity of the SODESS or SOTESS multiplied by 0.25; or
(2)	15% of the total SODESS or SOTESS metered Load. 
(iii)	For each 15-minute interval, the metered or calculated charging Load that is less than or equal to the generation accumulator will be settled as Non-WSL Settlement Only Charging Load.
(6)	For a Generation Resource or ESR that excludes its Load(s) from the netting arrangement pursuant to paragraph (9) of Section 10.3.2.3, Generation Netting for ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters: 
(a)	The excluded Load(s) are measured by the corresponding EPS Meter, except that when a Resource Entity for an ESR communicates its non-charging Load(s) value(s) to the EPS Meter in accordance with Section 10.2.4. 
(b)	The excluded Load will be added back into the POI metering point to determine the net flows for the POI metering point.
(c)	For sites that are not located behind a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) meter point, it shall be the responsibility of the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider(s) (TDSP(s)) serving the excluded Load at the facility to account for the excluded Load by creating Electric Service Identifier(s) (ESI ID(s)) and providing ERCOT with interval data.  If there is a one-to-one relationship between each excluded Load meter and ESI ID, then the TDSP may request that ERCOT populate the ESI ID(s) for the excluded Load.
11.1.7	ERCOT Polled Settlement Generation Meter Splitting
(1)	ERCOT will apply any approved splitting schemes to partition generation production and auxiliary Load when the unit is not in operation in accordance with Section 10, Metering of these Protocols.
11.1.8	Correction of ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter Data for Non-Opt-In Transmission Losses
(1)	ERCOT will correct the total Load of EPS meters for NOIEs that have transmission behind the Settlement meters and are connected to the ERCOT Transmission Grid via bi-directional metering for actual Transmission Losses according to Section 13, Transmission and Distribution Losses.  ERCOT will populate Settlement Interval Load data for NOIEs into data sets to be used in the Load aggregation process.  NOIEs will receive extract Load data via the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.
11.1.9	Treatment of Non-Opt-In Entity or External Load Serving Entity Radially Connected Entities
(1)	At NOIE or External Load Serving Entity (ELSE) metering points for which the TSP and/or DSP is supplying data to ERCOT, the interval Load data that is not bi-directional will have each point of delivery treated as an individual ESI ID.
11.1.10	Treatment of ERCOT Polled Settlement Load Data
(1)	For EPS metering that ERCOT is populating ESI ID Load data, ERCOT will:
(a)	Utilize the data for all Settlement calculations and reports;
(b)	Provide the TSP and/or DSP and Load Serving Entity (LSE) with daily kWh consumption information in accordance with Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (Texas SET) 867_03, Monthly Usage, for interval data upon completion of the Data Aggregation process for the Settlement day.  Data changes during Settlement runs subsequent to the most current Settlement run will result in an additional Texas SET 867_03 being provided to the TSP and/or DSP and LSE.  The TSP, DSP, or LSE may request not to receive the consumption information.  Such a request must be submitted by the applicable Authorized Representative or Backup Authorized Representative;
(c)	Accommodate retail switching via the standard switching process and timelines;
(d)	Be identified as the Meter Reading Entity (MRE); and
(e)	Make ESI ID interval data available to the TSP and/or DSP and LSE via an extract.
(2)	The ERCOT read ESI ID data extract will:
(a)	Select all ERCOT read ESI IDs for the Market Participant; and
(b)	Provide interval data as populated by ERCOT for each channel associated to an ESI ID.
11.1.11	Treatment of ERCOT Polled Settlement Resource ID Data
(1)	For EPS Resource ID (RID) data, ERCOT will:
(a)	Be identified as the MRE;
(b)	Model and populate data to appropriate channels such that netting and aggregation conform to the ERCOT Protocol requirements; and
(c)	Make RID interval and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) interval data available to the associated Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), TSP and/or DSP, Resource Entity, and LSE via an extract.
(2)	The ERCOT RID data extract will:
(a)	Select all ERCOT read RIDs for the Market Participant;
(b)	Provide interval data as populated by ERCOT for each channel associated to a RID;
(c)	Provide the interval data to the TSPs and/or DSPs no later than noon on the tenth Business Day after ERCOT reads the EPS meter; 
(d)	Provide interval data for Load and generation to TSPs and/or DSPs in accordance with Section 3.11.5, Transmission Service Provider and Distribution Service Provider Access to Interval Data; and
(e)	Whenever ERCOT makes an edit to data previously provided to the TSP and/or DSP, ERCOT shall provide the revised data to the TSP and/or DSP by noon of the tenth Business Day after the edit is made.
11.1.12	Treatment of ERCOT-Polled Settlement Energy Storage Resource Load Data
(1)	For EPS data associated with WSL and Non-WSL ESR Charging Load, ERCOT will:
(a)	Be identified as the MRE; and
(b)	Model and populate data to appropriate channels such that netting and aggregation conform to the ERCOT Protocol requirements.
11.2	Data Acquisition from Transmission Service Providers and/or Distribution Service Providers
11.2.1	Overview
(1)	This Section addresses the manner in which ERCOT will receive and validate data from the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and/or Distribution Service Providers (DSPs) regarding generation and Load from TSP and/or DSP metered Entities as defined in Section 10, Metering.
11.2.2	Data Provision and Verification of Non ERCOT Polled Settlement Metered Points
(1)	The TSP and/or DSP will provide data for TSP and/or DSP metered Entities as defined in Section 10, Metering, of these Protocols.
(2)	The TSP and/or DSP will provide data in accordance with the TSP and/or DSP meter data responsibilities detailed in Section 10 and will conform to data formats specified in Section 19, Texas Standard Electronic Transaction.
(3)	ERCOT will:
(a)	Provide the TSP and/or DSP a notification of successful/unsuccessful data transfer for the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) meter data submitted.  At the Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) level, the TSP and/or DSP will be notified of successful and unsuccessful validations;
(b)	Validate that the correct TSP and/or DSP is submitting meter consumption data on an individual ESI ID basis.  At the ESI ID level, the TSP and/or DSP will be notified of unsuccessful validations;  
(c)	Provide a report to the TSP and/or DSP listing each ESI ID for which ERCOT has not received consumption data for 38 days; and
(d)	Synchronize the Data Aggregation System (DAS) data with the Customer registration system on a daily basis to ensure the appropriate relationship between the ESI ID, Load Serving Entity (LSE) and/or Resource Entity, and the meter.  DAS will provide versioning to ensure ESI ID characteristic changes are time stamped.
11.3	Electric Service Identifier Synchronization
11.3.1	Electric Service Identifier Service History and Usage
(1)	On a daily basis, ERCOT shall provide incremental updates to Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) service history and usage information to Load Serving Entities (LSEs), Meter Reading Entities (MREs), and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and/or Distribution Service Providers (DSPs).  ESI ID service history includes ESI ID relationships and ESI ID characteristics.
11.3.2	Variance Process
(1)	Any LSE, MRE, TSP or DSP that contests the accuracy of ESI ID service history and usage information maintained by ERCOT shall file a variance in the manner specified by the Retail Market Guide.  The variance shall be processed in the manner specified in the Retail Market Guide, and ERCOT and Market Participants that are or may be affected by the variance shall comply with the provisions of the Retail Market Guide as they relate to the variance.
11.3.3	Alternative Dispute Resolution
(1)	An LSE, MRE, TSP or DSP may seek correction of ESI ID service history/usage information and resettlement pursuant to the provisions of Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure.
11.4	Load Data Aggregation
(1)	Data Aggregation is the process of netting, grouping and summing Load consumption data, applying appropriate profiles, Transmission Loss Factors (TLFs) and Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs) and calculating and allocating Unaccounted For Energy (UFE) to determine each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) and/or Load Serving Entity (LSE) responsibility by Settlement Interval by Settlement Point and by other prescribed aggregation determinants.  The process of aggregating Load data provides the determinants that allow the Settlement to occur.
11.4.1	Estimation of Missing Data
(1)	The Data Aggregation System (DAS) will perform estimation of missing interval and non-interval retail Load meter consumption data for use in Settlement when actual meter consumption data is unavailable.
11.4.2	Non-Interval Missing Consumption Data Estimation
(1)	The DAS will distinguish each Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) for which consumption data has not been received for the Operating Day.  Non-interval ESI ID locations for which no actual consumption exists for the specified Operating Day will be pre-aggregated by like components which may include but are not limited to the following sets:
(a)	QSE;
(b)	LSE;
(c)	Settlement Point;
(d)	UFE zone;
(e)	Profile ID;
(f)	DLF code;
(g)	Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and /or Distribution Service Provider (DSP);
(h)	Read start date (reading from date); and
(i)	Read stop date (reading to date).
(2)	Estimates of missing data are based on Profile ID, which includes:
(a)	Load Profile Type;
(b)	Weather Zone;
(c)	Meter type;
(d)	Weather sensitivity; and
(e)	Time Of Use Schedule (TOUS).
(3)	Profile application will take aggregated non-interval consumption data and apply the Load Profile in order to create interval consumption data.  Profiled non-interval data is calculated by dividing the aggregated ESI ID’s total kWh for a specific time period (usually a month) by the profile class’ kWh for the same specific time period and scaling the Load Profile for that same specific Operating Day by the resulting value to provide the profiled non-interval consumption data.
PND Operating Day 	=	(Actual KWH Specific Time Period / CP KWH Specific Time Period) * LP Operating Day
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
PND		Profiled non-interval data.
CP		Class profile.
LP	kWh	Load Profile (daily interval data set).

(4)	Any active ESI ID on the Operating Day being settled for which ERCOT does not have a meter read within 12 months of the Operating Day will not have a usage estimate applied to its Load Profile.  That is, the estimate for these Customers will be their assigned profile without any scaling factor applied.
11.4.3	Interval Consumption Data Estimation
(1)	ERCOT will estimate all ESI IDs with Interval Data Recorders (IDRs) for which consumption data has not been received for the Operating Day.  The method for estimating interval data for ESI IDs with IDR Meters is a “Weather Response Informed Proxy Day” technique.  This approach seeks to increase estimation accuracy by segmenting ESI IDs with IDR Meters into two groups based on a known indicator of Load (i.e., weather).  The classification of ESI IDs with IDR Meters into a Weather Sensitive (WS) group and a Non-Weather Sensitive (NWS) group determines the proxy day method used for estimation purposes.  The proxy day estimation method for each group captures the factors that best predict the ESI ID-specific Load shape for the Operating Day.
(2)	The NWS proxy day method will be used for estimating interval data for IDRs where the profile type code is BUSLRG or BUSLRGDG.
(3)	The WS proxy day method will be used for estimating interval data for IDRs where the profile type code is not BUSIDRRQ, BUSLRG, or BUSLRGDG.
11.4.3.1	Weather Sensitive Proxy Day Method
(1)	For ESI IDs estimated as Weather Sensitive IDR (WSIDR), ERCOT will use this WS proxy day method.  ESI IDs within the same Weather Zone will be grouped together.  The proxy days will be the same for all ESI IDs within each of the Weather Zones.  This method incorporates the following:
(a)	To determine eligible proxy days, select all days (of matching weekday/weekend day type and time period) within five degrees of the maximum temperature of the target Operating Day based on the previous 365 days and then limit the selection to those days that have their maximum temperatures occurring within two hours of the maximum temperature hour of occurrence of the Operating Day.  The maximum temperature separation criterion provides initial assurance that the eligible day will have a similar diurnal temperature pattern as the target Settlement Operating Day.
(b)	Perform two tests on each potential proxy day identified in item (a) above:
(i)	Temperature magnitude test sums the squared differences between the hourly temperatures of the target Operating Day and the hourly temperatures of the potential proxy day; and
(ii)	Temperature shape test calculates the incremental change in temperature from hour to hour during the day and sums the squared differences between the corresponding values of the target Operating Day and the potential proxy day.
(c)	Each potential proxy day for each test described in item (b) above is ranked in ascending order based on the sum of squared differences.
(d)	A final ranking is performed with the temperature magnitude test weighted more heavily than the shape test.  The weighting factors are 70% and 30%.
(e)	Select the top three ranked eligible days.
(f)	For each ESI ID, do the following:
(i)	Use the top ranked proxy day for the target Operating Day, if available;
(ii)	If the top ranked proxy day data is not available, use the second ranked proxy day data as the estimate;
(iii)	If the second ranked proxy day data is not available, use the third proxy day; and
(iv)	If no data is available for any of the proxy days selected, then default to the NWS proxy day method.
11.4.3.2	Non-Weather Sensitive Proxy Day Method
(1)	For ESI IDs estimated as Non-Weather Sensitive IDR (NWSIDR), ERCOT will use this NWS proxy day method.  This method incorporates the following:
(a)	Use the most recent proxy day for which data is available as the estimate for the target Operating Day.  From historical ESI ID specific interval data, choose the most recent occurrence of the appropriate day of the week (Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday) corresponding to the day of the week of the Operating Day (holidays are treated as Sundays) within the most recent 12 months of the Operating Day; or
(b)	If there is no historic interval data available according to item (a) above, the IDR data will be estimated using the default profile assigned to the ESI ID for the Operating Day.  If non-interval consumption data with a meter read within 12 months of the Operating Day is available, and if the ESI ID was profiled with a non-interval meter data type code within 90 days of the Operating Day, the default profile shall be estimated and/or scaled in accordance with Section 11.4.2, Non-Interval Missing Consumption Data Estimation.
11.4.3.3	Interval Data Recorder Estimation Reporting
(1)	ERCOT shall produce a report detailing the proxy day selection list for both NWSIDR and WSIDR methodologies.  This report will be made available to Market Participants on a daily basis.
11.4.4	Data Aggregation Processing for Actual Data
(1)	The DAS will apply backcasted profiles to aggregated actual non-interval consumption data for use in Settlement when actual meter consumption data is available.  IDR ESI IDs for which actual data exists will be used directly in the Data Aggregation process.
11.4.4.1	Application of Profiles to Non-Interval Data
(1)	Non-Interval ESI ID locations for which actual consumption exists for the specified Operating Day will be pre-aggregated by like components which may include but are not limited to the following sets:
(a)	QSE;
(b)	LSE;
(c)	Settlement Point;
(d)	UFE zone;
(e)	Profile ID;
(f)	DLF code;
(g)	TSP and/or DSP;
(h)	Read start date (reading from date); and
(i)	Read stop date (reading to date).
(2)	Profile application will take aggregated non-interval consumption data and apply the Load Profile in order to create interval consumption data.  Profiled non-interval data is calculated by dividing the aggregated ESI ID’s total kWh for a specific time period (usually a month) by the profile class’ kWh for the same specific time period and scaling the Load Profile for that same specific Operating Day by the resulting value to provide the profiled non-interval consumption data.
PND Operating Day	=	(Actual KWH Specific Time Period / CP KWH Specific Time Period) * LP Operating Day
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
PND		Profiled non-interval data.
CP		Class profile.
LP	kWh	Load Profile (daily interval data set).

11.4.4.2	Load Reduction for Excess PhotoVoltaic and Wind Distributed Renewable Generation 
(1)	Adjusted Metered Load (AML) for ESI IDs with PhotoVoltaic (PV) generation shall be adjusted as follows:
For ESI IDs with non-IDRs installed, AML shall be reduced for excess generation from ESI IDs with PV generation equal to or lower than the Distributed Generation (DG) registration threshold behind the meter where there is a meter that measures excess energy flow into the ERCOT System in a separate register.  Only ESI IDs that have been assigned a PV profile segment as specified in Load Profiling Guide Appendix D, Profile Decision Tree, shall be eligible for this reduction.   
Intervals beginning 1100 and ending 1500 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) (spanning (16) 15-minute intervals) shall be reduced by the following amount:
PV_adjust i  =   kWh_gen / (read_days * 16)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
PV_adjust i	kWh	Reduction for PV excess generation for interval i.
kWh_gen	kWh	Actual (measured) kWh flowing into the Distribution System (out-flow from the Premise).
read_days	days	Number of days in meter read period.

(2)	AML for ESI IDs with wind generation shall be adjusted as follows:
For ESI IDs with non-IDRs installed, AML shall be reduced for excess generation from ESI IDs with wind generation equal to or lower than the DG registration threshold behind the meter where there is a meter that measures excess energy flow into the ERCOT System in a separate register.  Only ESI IDs that have been assigned a wind profile segment as specified in the Load Profiling Guide Appendix D, shall be eligible for this reduction.
Intervals beginning 0800 and ending 2000 CPT (spanning (48) 15-minute intervals) shall be reduced by the following amount:	
Wind_adjust = kWh_gen * .65 / (read_days * 48)
All other intervals in the day (the remaining 48 intervals) shall be reduced by the following amount:
Wind_adjust = kWh_gen * .35 / ((read_days * 48) + DST adjust)
Where:
Variable	Unit	Description
wind_adjusti	kWh	Reduction for wind excess generation for interval i.
kWh_gen	kWh	Actual (measured) kWh flowing into the Distribution System (out-flow from the Premise).
read_days	days	Number of days in meter read period.
DST adjust	N/A	Daylight Savings Time Adjustment:  Spring DST = -4; Fall DST = 4.
(3)	The excess generation adjustments for ESI IDs, which have PV or wind generation of equal to or lower than the DG registration threshold, as described in Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, behind the meter and that have an Advanced Metering System (AMS) integrated meter or Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) / Electric Cooperative (EC) Non-BUSIDRRQ IDR that measures the excess energy flow into the ERCOT System in 15-minute intervals, shall be determined using the actual 15-minute interval data, if available.
11.4.4.3	Load Reduction for Excess from Other Distributed Generation 
(1)	AML for ESI IDs with DG that is neither PV nor wind shall be adjusted as follows:
For ESI IDs with non-IDRs installed, AML shall be reduced for excess generation from ESI IDs with DG generation of equal to or lower than the DG registration threshold behind the meter where there is a meter that measures excess energy flow into the ERCOT System in a separate register.  Only ESI IDs that have been assigned a DG profile segment as specified in Load Profiling Guide Appendix D, Profile Decision Tree, shall be eligible for this reduction.   
All intervals in the meter read period shall be reduced by the following amount:
DG _adjust i  =   kWh_gen / read_ints
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
DG_adjust i	kWh	Reduction for excess DG for interval i.
kWh_gen	kWh	Actual (measured) kWh flowing into the Distribution System (out-flow from the Premise).
read_ints	Intervals	Number of 15-minute intervals in the meter read period.

(2)	The energy reduction adjustment for ESI IDs, which have DG equal to or lower than the DG registration threshold behind the meter and have an AMS integrated meter that measures the excess energy flow into the ERCOT System in 15-minute intervals, shall be determined using the actual 15-minute interval data, if available.
11.4.5	Adjustment of Consumption Data for Losses
(1)	The ERCOT DAS shall adjust consumption data for Transmission Losses and Distribution Losses.  The sources of data used in this process are:
(a)	Profiled estimated non-interval data;
(b)	Estimated proxy day interval data;
(c)	Profiled actual non-interval data;
(d)	Actual interval data;
(e)	DLFs; and
(f)	TLFs (average ERCOT-wide).
(2)	ERCOT will apply DLFs to aggregate levels of Load data in accordance with Section 13, Transmission and Distribution Losses.  Aggregated Loads will be adjusted for Distribution Losses based upon DLF code correlated to the DLF for each TSP and/or DSP.  Loads that are transmission connected or that are settled at transmission level will not be allocated distribution level losses.  Intervals with negative Load will not be allocated distribution level losses.
NDLAL i Aggregated Group	=	Max (0, L i Aggregated Group) * 1 / (1- DLF i Aggregated Group)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
i	None	Interval
NDLAL i	MWh	Net Distribution Loss adjusted Load per interval
L i	MWh	Load per interval
DLF i	None	DLF (voltage code specific) per interval

(3)	ERCOT will apply the ERCOT wide TLF to the net Distribution Loss adjusted Loads to produce a net loss adjusted aggregated Load value for each aggregation set.  ERCOT wide TLFs will be developed in accordance with Section 13.  Intervals with negative Load will not be allocated Transmission Losses.
NLAL i Aggregated Group	=		Max (0, NDLAL i Aggregated Group) * 1/ (1 - TLF i)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
i	None	Interval
NDLAL i	MWh	Net Distribution Loss adjusted Load per interval
NLAL i	MWh	Net loss adjusted Load per interval
TLF i	None	TLF (ERCOT wide factor) per interval

11.4.6	Unaccounted for Energy Calculation and Allocation
(1)	The DAS shall adjust the net loss adjusted Load for each aggregated retail Load group for UFE.  The Data Aggregation process will calculate the difference between net loss adjusted Load for the entire ERCOT System, which has been adjusted for Distribution Losses and Transmission Losses, and the total system Load (generation) in order to determine the total UFE.  The calculated UFE for each Settlement Interval is then allocated to positive Loads.  For the purpose of the UFE calculation, scheduled flow out of ERCOT on a Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) will be deemed as Load, and scheduled flow into ERCOT on a DC Tie will be deemed as generation.
11.4.6.1	Calculation of ERCOT-Wide Unaccounted For Energy
(1)	The DAS will calculate ERCOT-wide UFE as the difference between the total ERCOT generation and the total Load, adjusted for losses in ERCOT during each Settlement Interval.  UFE may be positive or negative in any single Settlement Interval.
UFE i (MWh)	=  ERCOT Generation i Total – ERCOT Net Loss Adjusted Load i Total
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
UFE i	MWh	Total ERCOT system UFE per interval.
ERCOT Generation i Total	MWh	Total ERCOT internal generation plus sum of approved ERCOT DC Tie imports.
ERCOT Net Loss Adjusted Load  i Total	MWh	Total ERCOT load plus Block Load Transfer (BLT) exports plus sum of approved DC Tie exports, adjusted for distribution and transmission losses.

i		Interval
11.4.6.2	Allocation of Unaccounted For Energy
(1)	ERCOT will allocate UFE to specific categories based upon adjusted Load Ratio Share.  The adjusted Load Ratio Share will be determined using the following UFE category weighting factors:
(a)	0.0 - Transmission voltage level IDR Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs);
(b)	0.10 - Transmission voltage level IDR Premises;
(c)	0.50 - Distribution voltage level IDR Premises; and
(d)	1.00 - Distribution voltage level profiled Premises.
(2)	The ERCOT DAS shall provide a mechanism to change the UFE category weighting factors for specific transition periods.
11.4.6.3	Unaccounted For Energy Allocation to Unaccounted For Energy Categories
(1)	For each Premise category, and for each Settlement interval, the UFE allocated to each UFE category is calculated as follows:
UFE PRiz	=	UFE iz	*	[(f PRiz	*	L PRiz) / L UFEiz]
UFE IDRiz	=	UFE iz	*	[(f IDRiz	*	L IDRiz) / L UFEiz]
UFE TRiz	=	UFE iz	*	[(f TRiz	*	L TRiz) / L UFEiz]
UFE TNOIEiz	=	UFE iz	*	[(f TNOIEiz  *  L TNOIEiz) / L UFEiz]
L UFEiz	=	f PRiz   *   L PRiz   +   f IDRiz   *   L IDRiz + f TRiz  *   L TRiz   +   f TNOIEiz   *  L TNOIEiz
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
UFE PRiz		Amount of UFE allocated to profile category per interval per zone.
UFE IDRiz		Amount of UFE allocated to IDR category per interval per zone.
UFE TRiz		Amount of UFE allocated to transmission category per interval per zone.
UFE TNOIEiz		Amount of UFE allocated to transmission voltage level NOIE category per interval per zone.
UFE iz		Total ERCOT system UFE per interval per zone.
L PRiz		Aggregate Load of profile category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L IDRiz		Aggregate Load of all IDR category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L TRiz		Aggregate Load of transmission category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L TNOIEiz		Aggregate Load of transmission level non opt-in category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
f PRiz		Adjustment percentage for profiled Premises per interval per zone.
f IDRiz		Adjustment percentage for IDR Premises per interval per zone.
f TRiz		Adjustment percentage for transmission Premises per interval per zone.
f TNOIEiz		Adjustment percentage for transmission voltage level non-opt-in Premises per interval per zone.
L UFEiz		Adjusted total UFE allocation reference Load per interval per zone.

11.4.6.4	Unaccounted For Energy Allocation to Load Serving Entities within Unaccounted For Energy Categories
(1)	The UFE allocated to each UFE category type is then allocated to the LSEs within each UFE category based upon each LSE’s share of the total Load for the UFE category.
UFE PRiz LSE	=	UFE PRiz		*	(Max (0, L PRiz LSE) / L PRiz)
UFE IDRiz LSE	=	UFE IDRiz	*	(Max (0, L IDRiz LSE) / L IDRiz)
UFE TRiz LSE	=	UFE TRiz		*	(Max (0, L TRiz LSE) / L TRiz)
UFE TNOIEiz LSE	=	UFE TNOIEiz	*	(Max (0, L TNOIEiz LSE) / L TNOIEiz)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
i	None	Interval.
z	None	Zone.
UFE PRiz LSE	MWh	UFE allocated to LSE in UFE profile category per interval per zone.
UFE IDRiz LSE	MWh	UFE allocated to LSE in UFE IDR category per interval per zone.
UFE TRiz LSE	MWh	UFE allocated to LSE in UFE transmission category per interval per zone.
UFE TNOIEiz LSE	MWh	UFE allocated to LSE in UFE transmission NOIE category per interval per zone.
UFE PRiz	MWh	Amount of UFE allocated to profile category per interval per zone.
UFE IDRiz	MWh	Amount of UFE allocated to IDR category per interval per zone.
UFE TRiz	MWh	Amount of UFE allocated to transmission category per interval per zone.
UFE TNOIEiz	MWh	Amount of UFE allocated to transmission voltage level NOIE category per interval per zone.
L PRiz LSE	MWh	LSE Load in profile category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L IDRiz LSE	MWh	LSE Load in IDR category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L TRiz LSE	MWh	LSE Load in transmission category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L TNOIEiz LSE	MWh	LSE Load in transmission NOIE category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L PRiz  	MWh	Aggregate Load of profile category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L IDRiz	MWh	Aggregate Load of all IDR category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.
L TRiz	MWh	Aggregate Load of transmission category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone
L TNOIEiz	MWh	Aggregate Load of transmission level non opt-in category - adjusted for losses per interval per zone.

11.5	Data Aggregation
11.5.1	Aggregate Load Data
(1)	Load data will be aggregated into distinct grouping and segments such as Load Serving Entity (LSE), Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), and Settlement Point, and provided to Settlement.
11.5.1.1	Aggregated Load Data Posting/Availability
(1)	The following market-specific Load information will be made available by ERCOT to each Market Participant:
(a)	LSE Load Ratio Share (LRS) data by ERCOT total;
(b)	LSE Load values, by unique combination of QSE, Settlement Point, Unaccounted For Energy (UFE) zone, Load Profile Type, Distribution Loss Factor (DLF) code and Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and /or Distribution Service Provider (DSP);
(c)	LSE Load plus allocation of Distribution Losses by unique combination of QSE, Settlement Point, UFE zone, Load Profile Type, DLF code and TSP and/or DSP;
(d)	LSE Load plus allocation of Distribution Losses and Transmission Losses by unique combination of QSE, Settlement Point, UFE zone, Load Profile Type, DLF code and TSP and/or DSP; and
(e)	LSE Load plus allocation of Distribution Losses, Transmission Losses, and UFE by unique combination of QSE, Settlement Point, UFE zone, Load Profile Type, DLF code and TSP and/or DSP. 
(2)	Each Market Participant will have access only to its own information and/or the information of the Entities which it represents.  ERCOT will make the aforementioned data for each Settlement run available to Market Participants via the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area within 48 hours of finalizing the data for Settlement statements.
11.5.1.2	TSP and/or DSP Load Data Posting/Availability
(1)	ERCOT will post TSP and/or DSP Load plus allocation of Distribution Losses, Transmission Losses, and UFE, by TSP and/or DSP, to the MIS Secure Area.
(2)	ERCOT will make the aforementioned data for each Settlement run type available to Market Participants via the MIS Secure Area within 48 hours of finalizing the data for Settlement Statements.
(3)	ERCOT will post to the MIS Secure Area, a monthly report including TSP and/or DSP 15-minute interval Load data for each Operating Day adjusted to exclude Block Load Transfers (BLTs) or Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraphs (1)-(3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the following information, consistent with the requirements in Section 1.3, Confidentiality:
(a)	ERCOT will post TSP and/or DSP Load plus allocation of Distribution Losses, Transmission Losses, and UFE, by TSP and/or DSP.
(b)	ERCOT will make the aforementioned data for each Settlement run type available to Market Participants within 48 hours of finalizing the data for Settlement Statements.
(c)	ERCOT will post a monthly report including TSP and/or DSP 15-minute interval Load data for each Operating Day adjusted to exclude Block Load Transfers (BLTs) or Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports.
11.5.2	Generation Meter Data Aggregation
(1)	ERCOT will perform generation aggregation by the following distinct criteria sets:
(a)	By UFE zone: This data set is used in the calculation of UFE in the Load aggregation process; and
(b)	By Generation Resource (Resource ID (RID)), by Resource Entities, by QSE and Settlement Point: This data set is passed to the Settlement process for generation imbalance calculations.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	By Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) (Resource ID (RID)), by Resource Entities, by QSE and Settlement Point: This data set is passed to the Settlement process for generation imbalance calculations.
11.5.2.1	Participant Specific Generation Data Posting/Availability
(1)	The following market-specific generation information will be made available by ERCOT to each Market Participant:
(a)	Generation unit production by Generation Resource Entity; and
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(a)	Generation unit production by Generation Resource or ESR Entity; and
(b)	Generation unit production by QSE.
(2)	Each Market Participant will have access only to its own information and/or the information of the Entities, which it represents.  ERCOT will make the aforementioned data for each Settlement run available to Market Participants via the MIS Certified Area within 48 hours of finalizing the data for Settlement statements.
11.5.2.2	General Public Data Posting/Availability
(1)	The following general market information will be posted to the MIS Secure Area:
(a)	Total generation;
(b)	Total Adjusted Meter Load (AML); and
(c)	Total Wholesale Storage Load (WSL).
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	The following general market information will be posted on the ERCOT website:
(a)	Total generation;
(b)	Total Adjusted Meter Load (AML); and
(c)	Total Wholesale Storage Load (WSL).
(2)	ERCOT will make the aforementioned data for each Settlement run type available to Market Participants via the MIS Certified Area within 48 hours of finalizing the data for Settlement statements.
11.6	Unaccounted For Energy Analysis
11.6.1	Overview
(1)	ERCOT will provide an annual Unaccounted For Energy (UFE) analysis report consisting of UFE data analysis from the preceding calendar year.  This report will be based on final Settlement data and will be posted to the ERCOT website by April 30th.  The appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) Subcommittee may:
(a)	Request interim UFE analysis reports; 
(b)	Establish a task force for further UFE investigation that may include the establishment of UFE analysis zones.  UFE analysis zones will not be used for Settlement purposes until adopted as UFE Settlement zones.  Before adoption as UFE Settlement zones the following will be considered, at a minimum:
(i)		Cost-benefit analysis;
(ii)		Installation requirements for Revenue Quality Meters;
(iii)		Impact on the Settlement system;
(iv)		Impact on Market Participant systems; and
(v)		Cost of UFE to Market Participants; and
(c)	Identify factors that are contributing to UFE and work with the appropriate Entities to rectify problems causing UFE.
(2)	ERCOT currently has one UFE zone for Settlement purposes, which encompasses all of ERCOT.  
11.6.2	Annual Unaccounted For Energy Analysis Report
(1)	The annual UFE analysis report will contain both ERCOT-wide and UFE allocation category quantities as follows:   
(a)	Total UFE MWhs;
(b)	Total UFE cost;
(c)	Percent of total UFE to ERCOT Load;
(d)	Percent of total UFE cost; and
(e)	Notice of any factors that may be contributing to UFE.




ERCOT Nodal Protocols
Section 12:  Market Information System


February 1, 2025






 
12	Market Information System	12-1
12.1	Overview	12-1
12.2	ERCOT Responsibilities	12-1
12.3	MIS Administrative and Design Requirements	12-2
12.4 	ERCOT Website	12-3
 
12	MARKET INFORMATION SYSTEM
12.1	Overview
(1)	ERCOT shall create and maintain an electronic Market Information System (“ERCOT Market Information System” or “MIS”).  The purpose of the MIS is to provide certain information available only to applicable Entities in the MIS Secure Area and to provide certain information available only to an individual Market Participant in the MIS Certified Area.
(2)	The MIS Secure and Certified Areas provide restricted access to ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII), to the extent that the Protocols or any Other Binding Document requires such information to be posted thereon.  All ECEII posted on the MIS Secure or Certified Area shall be subject to the restrictions in Section 1.3.2, ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information.  ECEII posted on the MIS Secure or Certified Area may be accessed only by those individuals that are issued ECEII-eligible Digital Certificates.
(3)	ERCOT shall also create and maintain an Internet website with public and restricted areas.
12.2	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall post information to the Market Information System (MIS) as directed throughout these Protocols.  With the exception of information requested by a Market Participant in accordance with paragraph (3) below, ERCOT may not use the MIS to post information beyond that specifically required in these Protocols or market guides as described in paragraph (2) of Section 1.1, Summary of the ERCOT Protocols Document.
(2)	ERCOT may use the ERCOT website to communicate information that is not posted to the MIS.
(3)	To the extent a request is reasonable, in ERCOT’s sole discretion, ERCOT shall post to the MIS Certified Area information that is requested by a Market Participant but not required to be posted by these Protocols.
(4)	ERCOT shall create and maintain a list of all of the posting requirements contained in these Protocols or market guides as described in paragraph (2) of Section 1.1.  This list and changes thereto shall be posted to the ERCOT website.
(5)	ERCOT shall post the list of Other Binding Documents to the ERCOT website.
(6)	ERCOT shall use the MIS, as necessary, to post information that meets requirements to disseminate information under North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.  Information posted pursuant to this paragraph shall be added to the list described in paragraph (4) above.  ERCOT shall notify Market Participants via a Market Notice when such information is posted.
[NPRR244:  Insert paragraph (7) below upon project completion:]
(7)	ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website business procedure documents, if they exist, for the following activities:  credit management, process for conducting interconnection studies, process for conducting Reliability Must-Run (RMR) studies, processes for managing the commitment of RMR Units, process for conducting Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) and Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC), process for development of the Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction models, process for determining the Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Right (PCRR) allocations, process for determining when a market price is to be revised, process for revising prices, and process for determining when units procured in DRUC or HRUC are not needed.  For the above listed activities, ERCOT will post a business procedure document only after it has reviewed and determined that the document does not contain confidential information.  If a business procedure document contains confidential information, such information shall be redacted before posting to the ERCOT website.
12.3	MIS Administrative and Design Requirements
(1)	The Market Information System (MIS) must comply with the administrative and design requirements specified as follows:
(a)	ERCOT shall ensure that all Market Participants have access to the ERCOT MIS on a nondiscriminatory basis.
(b)	The MIS must, at a minimum, provide all information required under any regulations of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) or other Governmental Authorities.  
(c)	The MIS must include any available information that may be used by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) to estimate or verify bills for all ERCOT-provided settlements.  
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	The ERCOT website must include, consistent with the requirements in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, any available information that may be used by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) to estimate or verify bills for all ERCOT-provided settlements.
(d)	At the request of an Eligible Transmission Service Customer, ERCOT shall provide the methodology and data to independently reproduce information contained in the MIS related to the operation of the ERCOT market.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (d) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(d)	On the ERCOT website, ERCOT shall provide, consistent with the requirements in Section 1.3, the methodology and data to independently reproduce information contained in the MIS related to the operation of the ERCOT market.
(e)	The MIS must include security measures to safeguard ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) and protect the confidentiality of Protected Information as required by these Protocols.
(f)	The MIS must comply with industry standards for commercial websites, including query and search functionality.
(g)	The MIS must provide easy navigation based on the posting list described in paragraph (4) of Section 12.2, ERCOT Responsibilities, above for document retrieval.  This navigability must include hyperlinks between listings and the MIS posted information. 
12.4 	ERCOT Website
(1)	ERCOT shall create and maintain an Internet website consistent with industry standards for commercial websites, including query and search functionality.  The Market Information System (MIS) or a link to the MIS must be available from the ERCOT website.  ERCOT may use the ERCOT website to communicate information that is not posted to the MIS.  Data, extracts, and reports required by the Protocols to be published on the ERCOT website must be made available on a non-discriminatory basis.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 13:  Transmission and Distribution Losses

April 1, 2025

 
13	Transmission and Distribution Losses	1
13.1	Overview	1
13.1.1	Responsibility for Transmission and Distribution Losses	1
13.1.2	Calculation of Losses for Settlement	2
13.2	Transmission Losses	2
13.2.1	Forecasted Transmission Loss Factors	2
13.2.2	Actual Transmission Loss Factors	2
13.2.3	Forecasted Transmission Loss Factor Calculations	2
13.2.4	Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak Transmission Loss Factor Calculation	3
13.2.5	Actual Transmission Loss Factor Calculation	4
13.2.6	Loss Monitoring	4
13.3	Distribution Losses	4
13.3.1	Loss Factor Calculation	5
13.3.2	Loss Monitoring	6
13.4	Special Loss Calculations for NOIEs with Behind-the-Meter Transmission Losses	6
13.4.1	Deemed Actual Transmission Losses for NOIEs	6
 
13	TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION LOSSES
13.1	Overview
(1)	This section sets forth the method for calculating Transmission and Distribution Losses (T&D Losses) and responsibilities of ERCOT, Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs), Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Distribution Service Providers (DSPs) with respect to T&D Losses.
13.1.1	Responsibility for Transmission and Distribution Losses
(1)	T&D Losses are the responsibility of each QSE representing Load.  ERCOT shall allocate T&D Losses to Load at the appropriate aggregate level as part of the data aggregation process to calculate the Load obligation of QSEs for settlement purposes.
(2)	ERCOT shall forecast Transmission Loss Factors (TLFs) and post them to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead period.  ERCOT shall forecast the ERCOT-wide TLFs as a percentage of Load for each Settlement Interval of the Operating Day.  By the close of business on the day following the Operating Day, ERCOT shall also calculate Actual TLFs using the actual system Load and shall post the resulting Actual TLFs to the settlement system and the ERCOT website.
(3)	ERCOT shall forecast Settlement Interval Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs) and post them to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day Ahead period.  ERCOT shall forecast the Settlement Interval DLFs as a percentage of Load for each Settlement Interval of the Operating Day.  On the day following the Operating Day, ERCOT shall also calculate Settlement Interval DLFs using actual system Load for that Settlement Interval and post the resulting deemed actual Settlement Interval DLFs to the settlement system and the ERCOT website.
(4)	Distribution loss coefficients, and the calculation methodology from which they are derived, will be subject to audit by ERCOT for accurate and consistent application.  Non-Opt-in Entities (NOIEs) with Interval Data Recorders (IDRs) at the settlement point of delivery are not required to provide Distribution loss coefficients and calculation methodology.
(5)	In the special case where there are distribution facilities upstream from a wholesale NOIE or External Load Serving Entity (ELSE) settlement IDR, that settlement IDR will be compensated for line and transformer losses between the IDR and the ERCOT Transmission Grid to account for the Distribution Losses.  The NOIE or ELSE will then be treated as a transmission level NOIE or ELSE.  Calculations are subject to review by ERCOT.  Since loss compensation is included in the wholesale settlement IDR, the TSP and/or DSP providing upstream wheeling facilities may need to offer wholesale wheeling tariffs excluding the losses for which compensation has already been provided.
13.1.2	Calculation of Losses for Settlement
(1)	ERCOT shall use the deemed actual Settlement Interval DLFs applicable to each Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) and the Actual TLFs when adjusting aggregated Load for losses to determine the QSE total Load obligations.
13.2	Transmission Losses
13.2.1	Forecasted Transmission Loss Factors
(1)	The forecasted Transmission Loss Factor (TLF) for each interval in the Operating Day shall be a linear interpolation or extrapolation using the on-peak and the off-peak TLFs and the corresponding forecast of ERCOT System Load during the same interval to calculate the loss factors.
(2)	At 0600 of the Day-Ahead period, ERCOT shall forecast a TLF for each Settlement Interval of the Operating Day and post on the ERCOT website the forecasted TLFs which correspond to the Operating Day forecast.  The source of the on-peak and off-peak losses are the ERCOT load flow base cases for the applicable season.  For the purpose of Section 13.2, Transmission Losses, “season” is defined as those set forth in item (1) of Section 13.2.4, Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak Transmission Loss Factor Calculation.
13.2.2	Actual Transmission Loss Factors
(1)	ERCOT shall determine the Actual TLF for each interval in the Operating Day by dividing the sum of line and transformer MW losses by the total ERCOT Load as determined by the State Estimator in the Energy Management System (EMS).
(2)	The day after the Operating Day, ERCOT shall publish Actual TLFs to be used in Settlement calculations.
13.2.3	Forecasted Transmission Loss Factor Calculations
(1)	The following formulas shall be used to translate the Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak TLFs into forecasted Settlement Interval TLFs.
TLF i	=	(SSC * SIEL i) + SIC
Variable	Unit	Description
i	none	Interval
TLF i	none	Transmission Loss Factor for a Settlement Interval
SIEL i	MWh	Settlement Interval ERCOT System Load (forecasted)
SSC	none	Seasonal Slope Coefficient
SIC	none	Seasonal Intercept Coefficient
Where
	SSC 	=	(SONLF – SOFFLF) / (SONL – SOFFL)
	SIC	=	[(SOFFLF * SONL) – (SONLF * SOFFL)] / (SONL – SOFFL)
Variable	Unit	Description
SONLF	none	Seasonal on-peak percent loss factor 
SOFFLF	none	Seasonal off-peak percent loss factor 
SONL	none	Seasonal on-peak Load value
SOFFL	none	Seasonal off-peak Load value
13.2.4	Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak Transmission Loss Factor Calculation
(1)	Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak TLFs are derived from the annually updated ERCOT on-peak and off-peak load flow base cases analysis by ERCOT.  Base cases reflect the most current data on the transmission system and Generation Resource Dispatch.  The ERCOT Transmission Grid topology and related Generation Resource Dispatch in the base cases are the critical factors in calculating losses.  Seasonal time periods are defined as follows:
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak TLFs are derived from the annually updated ERCOT on-peak and off-peak load flow base cases analysis by ERCOT.  Base cases reflect the most current data on the transmission system and Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR) Dispatch.  The ERCOT Transmission Grid topology and related Generation Resource and ESR Dispatch in the base cases are the critical factors in calculating losses.  Seasonal time periods are defined as follows:
(a)	Spring (March – May)
(b)	Summer (June – September)
(c)	Fall (October – November)
(d)	Winter (December – February)  
(2)	ERCOT shall calculate seasonal TLFs by dividing ERCOT seasonal case Transmission Losses (60 kV system and higher) by the ERCOT seasonal base Load adjusted (reduced) for self-serve Load modeled in the case.  The resulting TLFs are expressed as a percentage of Load.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the seasonal TLFs to the ERCOT website prior to the start of the year for the next four seasons beginning with the Spring season.
13.2.5	Actual Transmission Loss Factor Calculation
(1)	The following formula shall be used by ERCOT’s State Estimator process to determine Actual TLFs.
	TLF i	=	(ΣLINE_LOSSES i) + (ΣTRANSFORMER_LOSSES i) / ESL i

Variable	Unit	Description
i	none	15-Minute Interval
TLF i	none	Transmission Loss Factor for the 15-Minute Settlement Interval
ESL i	MW	ERCOT System Load for the 15-Minute Interval
LINE_LOSSES i	MW	Line Losses for the 15-Minute Interval
TRANSFORMER_LOSSES i	MW	Transformer Losses for the 15-Minute Interval
13.2.6	Loss Monitoring
(1)	ERCOT shall monitor Transmission Losses annually and will investigate any abnormal loss factors.  ERCOT and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) shall use the cost of losses as one criterion in evaluating the need for transmission additions.
13.3	Distribution Losses
(1)	By October 30th of each year for the next calendar year, or two months prior to the posting of any update to the approved Distribution loss coefficients, codes, or calculation, each Distribution Service Provider (DSP), except Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs), shall calculate and provide ERCOT the annual Distribution loss coefficients to be applied to distribution voltage level Loads in its area of certification.  ERCOT shall review and approve the Distribution Loss Factor (DLF) calculation methodology used by each DSP prior to use of the loss coefficients for settlement purposes.  If the DLF calculation methodology does not conform with ERCOT’s interpretation of the Protocol criteria in this subsection, ERCOT will work with the DSP to correct the deficiency.  Until deficiencies are resolved, the last approved Distribution loss coefficients and the calculation methodology will be posted, and the last approved Distribution loss coefficients shall be used for settlement.  A DSP may only submit a change to the DLF calculation methodology annually or when a change in a DSP service area warrants an update to the approved DLF methodology based on the DSP internal evaluation.
(2)	The DSP shall assign a Distribution loss code to each Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID).  A maximum of five Distribution loss codes may be submitted for each DSP based upon ERCOT approved parameters, such as service voltages or number of transformations.
(3)	The following standards will be used to identify the Distribution loss code applicable to each ESI ID:
•	T = Transmission connected Customers (no Settlement Interval DLF applied)
•	A through E = Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) defined Customer segment(s)
(4)	The DSPs, except NOIEs, are obligated to provide Distribution loss coefficients to ERCOT.  ERCOT will post the Distribution loss coefficients and calculation methodology, for each DSP.
(5)	Distribution loss information submitted by the DSP shall include:
(a)	The annual Distribution loss coefficients (F1, F2, and F3) for each Distribution loss code; and
(b)	The methodology upon which the calculation of the coefficients (F1, F2, and F3) was made.
(6)	A NOIE may provide ERCOT with the information detailed in paragraph (5) above.  If such information is provided, ERCOT shall calculate and post NOIE DSP DLFs using the same processes for the calculation and posting of competitive DSP DLFs.
13.3.1	Loss Factor Calculation
(1)	ERCOT shall use the Distribution loss coefficients submitted by the DSP to calculate the Settlement Interval DLFs.  Settlement Interval DLFs will be calculated from the data provided by DSPs as follows using the following equation:
SILF i = F1 * (SIEL i / AAL) + F2 + F3 / (SIEL i / AAL)
Variable	Unit	Description
i		interval
SILFi		Settlement Interval DLF
SIELi		Settlement Interval ERCOT System Load (forecasted or actual)
AAL		Annual Interval Average ERCOT System Load.   The AAL is calculated using the total ERCOT Load stated in the most recent settlement during the period beginning on September 1 and ending August 31.  ERCOT will provide the AAL to DSPs that are obligated to provide Distribution loss coefficients and calculation methodology to ERCOT, by September 15th of each year.
F1 , F2 , F3		Distribution Loss coefficients determined by the Distribution Service Provider to allow calculation of its SILF from ERCOT System Load
		
 (2)	ERCOT shall use the deemed actual Settlement Interval DLFs calculated for each Settlement Interval of the Operating Day for settlement purposes.
13.3.2	Loss Monitoring
(1)	Distribution loss coefficients and the calculation methodology from which they are derived for all DSPs, except for NOIEs, will be submitted to ERCOT and will be subject to audit for accuracy and consistency of application.
13.4	Special Loss Calculations for NOIEs with Behind-the-Meter Transmission Losses 
13.4.1	Deemed Actual Transmission Losses for NOIEs
(1)	All Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) representing Load, including Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs), will be responsible for Transmission Losses allocated in the manner described in these Protocols.  For NOIE Entities using transmission tie line meters to determine Load, ERCOT will adjust the net meter readings to remove calculated Transmission Losses behind the meter prior to applying ERCOT-wide Actual Transmission Loss Factors (TLFs).  
(2)	The deemed actual Transmission Losses for NOIEs shall be a linear interpolation or extrapolation between the seasonal on-peak and the seasonal off-peak NOIE TLFs posted pursuant to paragraph (3) of Section 13.2.4, Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak Transmission Loss Factor Calculation, corresponding to the actual NOIE metered Load in the interval.
(3)	The following formulas shall be used to translate the Seasonal On-Peak and Off-Peak TLFs into NOIE deemed actual Settlement Interval TLFs.
TLFi	=	(SSC * SIELi) + SIC
Variable	Unit	Description
i	none	Interval
TLFi	none	Transmission Loss Factor for a Settlement Interval
SIELi	MWh	Settlement Interval NOIE System Load (actual)
SSC	none	Seasonal Slope Coefficient
SIC	none	Seasonal Intercept Coefficient
	Where
	SSC 	=	(SONLF – SOFFLF) / (SONL – SOFFL)
	SIC	=	[(SOFFLF * SONL) – (SONLF * SOFFL)] / (SONL – SOFFL)
Variable	Unit	Description
SONLF	none	Seasonal on-peak percent loss factor 
SOFFLF	none	Seasonal off-peak percent loss factor 
SONL	none	Seasonal on-peak Load value
SOFFL	none	Seasonal off-peak Load value



ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 14:  State of Texas Renewable Energy Credit Trading Program


April 1, 2025


 
14	State of Texas Renewable Energy Credit Trading Program	14-1
14.1	Overview	14-1
14.2	Duties of ERCOT	14-2
14.2.1	Site Visits	14-3
14.3	Creation of Renewable Energy Credit Accounts and Attributes of Renewable Energy Credits	14-5
14.3.1	Creation of Renewable Energy Credit Accounts	14-5
14.3.2	Attributes of Renewable Energy Credits and Compliance Premiums	14-5
14.4	Registration to Become a Renewable Energy Credit Generator or Renewable Energy Credit Aggregator	14-6
14.5	Reporting Requirements	14-7
14.5.1	Renewable Energy Credit Generators and Renewable Energy Credit Offset Generators	14-7
14.5.2	Retail Entities	14-8
14.5.3	End-Use Customers	14-9
14.6	Awarding of Renewable Energy Credits	14-9
14.6.1	Adjustments to Renewable Energy Credit Award Calculations	14-10
14.6.2	Awarding of Compliance Premiums	14-10
14.7	Transfer of Renewable Energy Credits or Compliance Premiums Between Parties	14-11
14.8	Renewable Energy Credit Offsets	14-11
14.9	Allocation of Statewide Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement Among Retail Entities	14-12
14.9.1	Annual Capacity Targets	14-12
14.9.2	Capacity Conversion Factor	14-13
14.9.3	Statewide Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement	14-14
14.9.4	Application of Offsets - Adjusted Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement	14-15
14.9.5	Final Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement	14-16
14.10	Retiring of Renewable Energy Credits or Compliance Premiums	14-17
14.10.1	Mandatory Retirement	14-17
14.10.2	Voluntary Retirement	14-18
14.10.3	Retiring Unused Renewable Energy Credits or Compliance Premiums	14-18
14.11	Penalties and Enforcement	14-18
14.12	Maintain Public Information	14-18
14.13	Submit Annual Report to Public Utility Commission of Texas	14-20
 
14	STATE OF TEXAS RENEWABLE ENERGY CREDIT TRADING PROGRAM
14.1	Overview
(1)	On May 9, 2000, the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) appointed ERCOT as Program Administrator of the Renewable Energy Credits (REC) Trading Program described in subsection (h) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  On November 30, 2023, the PUCT reaffirmed ERCOT as Program Administrator of the REC Trading Program described in subsection (a)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.  The PUCT also established a Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) pursuant to Section 53 of House Bill 1500, enacted by the 88th Texas Legislature, Regular Session, to be phased out by September 1, 2025.  Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) § 39.9113, adopted by the 88th Texas Legislature and implemented by the PUCT in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, require that ERCOT administer a voluntary trading program on an ongoing basis.
[NPRR1250:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
(1)	On May 9, 2000, the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) appointed ERCOT as Program Administrator of the Renewable Energy Credits (REC) Trading Program described in subsection (h) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  On November 30, 2023, the PUCT reaffirmed ERCOT as Program Administrator of the REC Trading Program described in subsection (a)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.  Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA) § 39.9113, adopted by the 88th Texas Legislature and implemented by the PUCT in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, require that ERCOT administer a voluntary trading program on an ongoing basis.
(2)	The purposes of the REC Trading Program are: 
(a)	To ensure that the total amount of installed generating capacity from new solar renewable energy technologies in this state totals 1,310 megawatts (MW) by January 1, 2024 and 655 MW by January 1, 2025;
(b)	To provide for a REC Trading Program to facilitate voluntary trading under subsection (g) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173 and PURA § 39.9113, and by which the solar renewable energy requirements established by subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173 may be achieved in the most efficient and economical manner; to encourage the development, construction, and operation of new renewable energy Resources at those sites in this state that have the greatest economic potential for capture and development of this state’s environmentally beneficial Resources; to protect and enhance the quality of the environment in Texas through increased use of renewable Resources; and
(c)	To ensure that all Customers have access to providers of energy generated by renewable energy Resources pursuant to PURA § 39.101(b)(3).
[NPRR1250:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
(2)	The purposes of the REC Trading Program are: 
(a)	To provide for a REC Trading Program to facilitate voluntary trading under subsection (g) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173 and PURA § 39.9113, in the most efficient and economical manner; and
(b)	To ensure that all Customers have access to providers of energy generated by renewable energy Resources pursuant to PURA § 39.101(b)(3).
(3)	ERCOT shall administer the REC Trading Program, which became effective July 1, 2001.  Entities participating in the REC Trading Program must register with and execute the appropriate agreements with ERCOT.
14.2	Duties of ERCOT
(1)	As described in more detail in this Section, ERCOT shall:
(a)	Register renewable energy generators;
(b)	Register Retail Entities;   
(c)	Register other Entities choosing to participate in the Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Trading Program;
(d)	Create and maintain REC trading accounts for REC Trading Program participants;
(e)	Determine the annual Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) requirement for each Retail Entity in Texas using the formulas set forth in this Section;
(f)	On a quarterly basis, award RECs or Compliance Premiums earned by REC generators based on verified MWh production data;
(g)	Verify that Retail Entities meet annual SREC compliance requirements;
(h)	Retire RECs or Compliance Premiums as directed by REC Trading Program participants;
(i)	Retire RECs or Compliance Premiums as they expire;
(j)	On a monthly basis, make public the aggregated total MWh competitive energy sales in Texas;
(k)	Make public a list of REC Account Holders with contact information (e-mail, address, and telephone number) so as to facilitate REC or Compliance Premium trading;
(l)	Maintain a list of offset generators and the Retail Entities to whom such a generator’s offsets were awarded by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT);
(m)	Conduct a REC Trading Program Settlement process annually;
(n)	File an annual report with the PUCT as specified in subsection (h)(11) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program;
(o)	Monitor the operational status of participating renewable energy generation facilities in Texas and record retirements;
(p)	Compute and apply a revised Capacity Conversion Factor (CCF) (as described in Section 14.9.2, Capacity Conversion Factor);
(q)	Audit MWh production data from certified REC generating facilities;
(r)	Audit MWh production from renewable energy generation facilities producing offsets for Retail Entities on an annual basis;
(s)	Post a list of Facility Identification Numbers, and the associated renewable energy generation facility name, location, type, and noncompetitive certification data on the ERCOT website; and
(t)	Receive, implement and protect the confidentiality of Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs), identity of Retail Electric Provider (REP), and consumption data associated with transmission-level Customers that choose to have their Load excluded from the SRPS calculation consistent with Section 14.5.3, End-Use Customers, and subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.
[NPRR1250:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
(1)	As described in more detail in this Section, ERCOT shall:
(a)	Register renewable energy generators;
(b)	Register Retail Entities;   
(c)	Register other Entities choosing to participate in the Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Trading Program;
(d)	Create and maintain REC trading accounts for REC Trading Program participants;
(e)	On a quarterly basis, award RECs earned by REC generators based on verified MWh production data;
(f)	Retire RECs or Compliance Premiums as directed by REC Trading Program participants;
(g)	Retire RECs or Compliance Premiums as they expire;
(h)	On a monthly basis, make public the aggregated total MWh competitive energy sales in Texas;
(i)	Make public a list of REC Account Holders with contact information (e-mail, address, and telephone number) so as to facilitate REC or Compliance Premium trading;
(j)	Maintain a list of offset generators and the Retail Entities to whom such a generator’s offsets were awarded by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT);
(k)	Conduct a REC Trading Program Settlement process annually;
(l)	File an annual report with the PUCT as specified in subsection (h)(11) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program;
(m)	Monitor the operational status of participating renewable energy generation facilities in Texas and record retirements;
(n)	Audit MWh production data from certified REC generating facilities;
(o)	Audit MWh production from renewable energy generation facilities producing offsets for Retail Entities on an annual basis; and
(p)	Post a list of Facility Identification Numbers, and the associated renewable energy generation facility name, location, type, and noncompetitive certification data on the ERCOT website.
14.2.1	Site Visits
(1)	ERCOT may conduct site visits to renewable energy generation facilities on a random basis to ensure integrity of the REC Trading Program, as deemed necessary.  ERCOT shall require each registered renewable energy generator to provide one or more contact persons for purpose of site visit notification.  ERCOT shall provide at least 48 hours’ notice to the designated contact(s) prior to conducting a site visit for Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) only.
14.3	Creation of Renewable Energy Credit Accounts and Attributes of Renewable Energy Credits
14.3.1	Creation of Renewable Energy Credit Accounts
(1)	ERCOT shall create Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Accounts for any party desiring to participate in the REC Trading Program.  ERCOT shall require all holders of REC Accounts to execute a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (as provided for in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement) with ERCOT.  Each party requesting a REC Account must name a Designated Representative.  The Designated Representative must have the authority to represent and legally bind the REC Account Holder in all matters pertaining to the REC Trading Program.  These individuals will be the contact persons for ERCOT on matters regarding a REC Account.
14.3.2	Attributes of Renewable Energy Credits and Compliance Premiums
(1)	A REC or Compliance Premium is a tradable instrument that represents all of the renewable attributes associated with one MWh of production from a certified renewable generator.  A REC or Compliance Premium may trade separately from energy.  RECs are distributed to REC generators on a quarterly basis by ERCOT.  The number of RECs distributed to a certified generator is based on physically metered MWh production.  RECs may be traded, transferred, and retired.
(2)	Compliance Premiums are awarded by the Program Administrator in conjunction with an SREC that is generated by a renewable energy Resource that meets the criteria of subsection (e) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  For the purpose of the Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) requirements, one Compliance Premium is equal to one REC.  Compliance Premiums will not be awarded after December 31, 2024.
[NPRR1250:  Delete paragraph (2) above on September 1, 2025 and renumber accordingly.]
(3)	The components of a REC and Compliance Premium are defined in the table below. 
REC Information	Field Length	Description
Year	4 Digits	Year REC was issued.
Quarter	1 Digit	Quarter REC was issued.
Type of Renewable Resource	20 Characters	Reference to type of renewable Resource:  Solar, wind, biomass, tidal, geothermal, hydro, landfill gas, other.
Facility Identification Number	5 Digits	Number to be assigned by ERCOT.
REC Number	8 Digits	REC Number 1 through the number of MWh generated by the facility during the quarter. 

(4)	The Facility Identification Number assigned by ERCOT will be fixed for a facility’s lifetime, and will therefore remain constant regardless of changes in facility name or ownership.  Facilities must file changes of name, ownership, or other relevant certification information with ERCOT within 30 days of such changes.
(5)	Generating facilities that lose their Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) REC generator certification will not be awarded RECs by ERCOT subsequent to the date of the certification revocation, unless ERCOT is otherwise directed by the PUCT.
(6)	A REC or Compliance Premium will have an issue date of the Compliance Period in which it is generated.
(7)	RECs and Compliance Premiums have a useful life of three Compliance Periods.  For example, a qualifying MWh of renewable energy generated on December 31, 2023 will be the basis for a REC having an issue date of 2023.  The three Compliance Periods for which this REC may be used are 2023, 2024, and 2025.  This REC will expire one Business Day after March 31, 2026.  March 31 is the date by which a Retail Entity must submit its annual REC compliance retirement information to ERCOT.
[NPRR1250:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
(6)	RECs and Compliance Premiums have a useful life of three Compliance Periods.  For example, a qualifying MWh of renewable energy generated on December 31, 2023 will be the basis for a REC having an issue date of 2023.  The three Compliance Periods for which this REC may be used are 2023, 2024, and 2025.  This REC will expire one Business Day after March 31, 2026.  March 31 is the date by which a Retail Entity must submit its annual REC compliance retirement information to ERCOT.  As Compliance Premiums were last awarded December 31, 2024, all unused Compliance Premiums will expire by December 31, 2027.
14.4	Registration to Become a Renewable Energy Credit Generator or Renewable Energy Credit Aggregator
(1)	Renewable Energy Credit (REC) generators or REC aggregators must apply to the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) for certification to produce or aggregate RECs.  On receipt of a copy of a notification from the PUCT certifying that a renewable energy generation facility is eligible to generate or an Entity is eligible to aggregate RECs, ERCOT shall establish a REC trading account for the facility or Entity.  Each REC trading account shall have a unique identification number.
 (2)	ERCOT may close an account holding no RECs or Compliance Premiums for a period of one year after providing 30 days’ advance Notice to the REC Account Holder.
14.5	Reporting Requirements
14.5.1	Renewable Energy Credit Generators and Renewable Energy Credit Offset Generators
(1)	All Renewable Energy Credit (REC) generators and REC offset generators must report quarterly MWh production data to ERCOT no later than the 38th day after the last Operating Day of the quarter, in an electronic format prescribed by ERCOT.  The reported MWh quantity shall be solely produced from, and attributable to, a renewable generator as so designated by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).  Information relevant to quarterly reporting shall be handled in one of the following processes:
(a)	A renewable Generation Resource or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) that has interval meters, pursuant to Section 10, Metering, and has interval metered generation data provided to ERCOT for energy Settlement will:
(i)	Have the quarterly reporting function performed on their behalf by ERCOT using the Settlement Quality Meter Data extracted from the ERCOT Settlement system; or
(ii)	Self-report their Settlement quality MWh production data to ERCOT, in a format and on a timeline prescribed by ERCOT, based on Metering Facilities that are:
(A)	Installed, operated and maintained by the REC generator; 
(B)	Installed in a location to only record energy from generation certified by the PUCT to receive RECs;
(C)	Compliant with American National Standards Institute (ANSI) C12, Code for Electricity Metering, metering accuracy standards; and
(D)	Verified for accuracy every six years.
(b)	REC aggregators shall report production from microgenerator renewable energy Resources that are not interval metered for energy Settlement, in accordance with the methodology approved by the PUCT for the purposes of measuring the REC production of such Resources, in the format prescribed by ERCOT, including applicable supporting documentation;
(c)	All other REC generators, not specifically covered in items (a) and (b) above, must report Settlement quality MWh production data to ERCOT in a format and on a timeline prescribed by ERCOT; provided that REC generators not interconnected to any Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) may use performance measures for REC production as approved by the PUCT; or
(d)	Entities certified to produce RECs from landfill gas supplied directly to a gas distribution system operated by a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) shall report the MWh equivalent production data and supporting calculations to ERCOT on a timeline prescribed by ERCOT.
(2)	From time to time, or as determined to be necessary by ERCOT or the PUCT, Entities may be required to submit supporting documentation to allow verification of generation quantities.
(3)	The failure of a REC generator to report generation data in a timely fashion shall result in a delay in the issuance of RECs or Compliance Premiums for that generation facility for that quarter.  RECs or Compliance Premiums delayed by untimely reporting will be awarded during the REC award period next occurring after the required data are reported.  The issue date of such RECs or Compliance Premiums will be based on the quarter in which the RECs or Compliance Premiums were actually generated.
14.5.2	Retail Entities
(1)	To enable Retail Entities the ability to calculate their Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) requirements, all Retail Entities serving Load in the state of Texas shall provide Load data to ERCOT on a monthly basis, and no later than the 38th day after the last Operating Day of the month, in an electronic format prescribed by ERCOT.  The reported MWh quantity shall be solely the energy consumed by Customers in Texas.  Load data shall be provided in one of the following processes:
(a)	Retail Entities serving Load located within ERCOT shall have this function performed for them by ERCOT for the Load served within ERCOT.  The data supplied by ERCOT shall be Settlement Quality Meter Data extracted from the ERCOT Settlement system; or
(b)	Entities participating in the REC Trading Program that serve Load outside the ERCOT Region must report Settlement quality MWh Load data for Load served outside the ERCOT Region to ERCOT in a format prescribed by ERCOT. 
(i)	Entities reporting under paragraph (b) shall not include any MWhs served to a location for which a Customer has submitted a notice letter pursuant to subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.
(ii)	Notwithstanding the foregoing reporting requirements, such Entities shall submit monthly MWh Load data for December of each year by no later than January 15 of the following year.  Any error in estimating December Load shall be corrected by the submitting Entity in the following year’s true-up calculation as per subsection (f)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.
(2)	On a monthly basis, ERCOT shall calculate the MWh consumption of energy by Customers served by Retail Entities in Texas, using Load data submitted by program participants.  ERCOT shall adjust the Load data to ensure that any Load (MWh) covered by notice consistent with Section 14.5.3, End-Use Customers, is removed.
(3)	The failure of a Retail Entity to report required Load data (including Load data for Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) or accounts covered by notice, as specified in Section 14.5.3) in accordance with the Protocols shall result in estimation of Load data for the applicable Retail Entity by ERCOT for purposes of allocation of annual SRPS requirements.
[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.5.2 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.5.3	End-Use Customers
(1)	To enable ERCOT to determine the total retail sales of all Retail Entities and the retail sales of a specific Retail Entity for Section 14.9.3.1, Preliminary Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement for Retail Entities, and Section 14.9.5, Final Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement, a transmission-level voltage Customer that wishes to have its Load excluded from SRPS calculations pursuant to subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program, must submit the information in accordance with the rule.
[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.5.3 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.6	Awarding of Renewable Energy Credits
(1)	Following the end of each calendar quarter, and before the end of the next Business Day following receipt of all Renewable Energy Credit (REC) generator and Load data specified in Section 14.5.1, Renewable Energy Credit Generators and Renewable Energy Credit Offset Generators, and in Section 14.5.2, Retail Entities, ERCOT will credit RECs to the appropriate REC trading account.  ERCOT shall base the number of RECs to be issued on the MWh generation data provided by REC generators or ERCOT as applicable.  The number of RECs issued to a specific REC generator will be equal to the number of MWh generated by the certified generator during the quarter.  Quarterly production shall be rounded to the nearest whole MWh, with fractions of 0.5 MWh or greater rounded up.  If a REC generator is decertified during the quarter, RECs will be issued on MWhs produced during the quarter until the date and time of decertification.  
14.6.1	Adjustments to Renewable Energy Credit Award Calculations
(1)	Adjustments (reductions) to REC awards are made for renewable facilities that use more than 2% fossil fuel, and for REC aggregators that use estimation techniques to report generation.
(a)	Co-Fired Generator Adjustments:
(i)	For REC generators using a renewable energy technology that requires the use of fossil fuel that is greater than 2%, and less than or equal to 25%, of the total annual fuel input on a British Thermal Unit (BTU) or equivalent basis, RECs can only be earned on the renewable portion of the production.  RECs are awarded based on an adjusted number of MWh generated during the quarter.
(ii)	The renewable energy Resource shall calculate the electricity generated by the unit in MWh, based on the BTUs (or equivalent) produced by the fossil fuel and the efficiency of the renewable energy Resource, subtract the MWh generated with fossil fuel input from the total MWh of generation and report the renewable energy generated to the Program Administrator;
(b)	REC Aggregator Adjustments:
The REC aggregator may provide the Program Administrator with sufficient information for the Program Administrator to estimate with reasonable accuracy the output of each unit, based on known or observed information that correlates closely with the generation output.  REC aggregators using approved estimation techniques to report renewable energy production shall be awarded one REC for every 1.25 MWh generated.
14.6.2	Awarding of Compliance Premiums
(1)	A Compliance Premium is awarded by the Program Administrator in conjunction with a REC that is generated by a renewable energy Resource installed and certified after September 1, 2005 that is not powered by wind.  For the purpose of the Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) requirements, one Compliance Premium is equal to one REC.
(2)	One Compliance Premium shall be awarded for each REC awarded for energy generated until December 31, 2024.
[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.6.2 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.7	Transfer of Renewable Energy Credits or Compliance Premiums Between Parties
(1)	On the receipt of a request from the owner of a Renewable Energy Credit (REC) or Compliance Premium and purchaser of the REC or Compliance Premium, ERCOT will transfer the REC or Compliance Premium from the owner’s REC trading account to the REC trading account specified in the transfer request.  Transfer requests received by ERCOT shall be effective upon confirmation by the receiving Entity.
(2)	If a request for transfer cannot be executed, ERCOT will notify the requesting Entities of the reason.
(3)	On completing a transfer, ERCOT shall notify the Designated Representatives of all involved REC trading account owners by e-mail.
(4)	For the purpose of the REC Trading Program, RECs or Compliance Premiums residing in an Entity’s REC trading account are deemed to be owned by that Entity.
(5)	To the extent practicable, ERCOT will accommodate automated quarterly transfers.
14.8	Renewable Energy Credit Offsets
(1)	To qualify for Renewable Energy Credit (REC) offsets in the REC Trading Program, a Retail Electric Provider (REP), Municipally Owned Utility (MOU), generation and transmission cooperative, distribution cooperative, or an affiliate of a REP, MOU, generation and transmission cooperative, or distribution cooperative must apply for REC offsets from the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) by June 1, 2001.  This requirement is in effect without regard to whether or not the applicant will be a Retail Entity on January 1, 2002.  A REC offset represents one MWh of renewable energy from a renewable energy generator placed in service before September 1, 1999 that may be used in place of a REC to meet a renewable energy requirement.  REC offsets may not be traded.
(2)	After receipt of Notification from the PUCT (which shall include the name of the Entity receiving the offset, the name of the generator eligible to produce the offset, the value of the offset in MWh, and other information as applicable) verifying designation by the Entity receiving REC offsets, ERCOT shall use REC offsets from a Retail Entity as part of its calculation of Final Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) Requirements (FSRRs).  REC offsets are not transferable.  REC offsets will be considered valid until ERCOT receives Notification from the PUCT that the offset is no longer valid.
(3)	For purposes of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program, a generation and transmission cooperative shall be responsible for the cumulative total of its cooperative members’ renewable energy requirements as well as its affiliated cooperative members’ renewable energy requirements.  At the election of its board of directors, a generation and transmission cooperative will become responsible for the cumulative total of its distribution cooperatives’ SRPS requirements.  The sharing of the REC offsets of the generation and transmission cooperative among its distribution cooperatives shall not affect the cumulative total of the SRPS requirements of the distribution cooperative members, or its affiliated cooperative members in meeting their share of the state’s goals for renewable energy Resources.
[NPRR1250:  Replace Section 14.8 above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
14.8	[RESERVED]
14.9	Allocation of Statewide Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement Among Retail Entities
(1)	The first quarter of each year shall be the Settlement period for the preceding Compliance Period.  During this Settlement period each year the following actions shall occur:
(a)	No later than the date set forth in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program, the Program Administrator shall allocate the Statewide Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) Requirement (SSRR) for the previous year’s Compliance Period among all Retail Entities in the state.  This allocation represents the Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC) compliance requirements for the preceding Compliance Period.  To perform this calculation, ERCOT shall use Load data provided to it as set forth in these Protocols.
(b)	By the date set forth in P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, the Program Administrator shall notify each Retail Entity of its Final SRPS Requirement (FSRR) for the previous Compliance Period.
(c)	The Program Administrator may request from the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) an adjustment to the deadlines set forth in this Section if certain factors, including but not limited to changes to the ERCOT Settlement Calendar, should affect the timely availability of reliable retail sales data or renewable Resource generation data necessary for calculating SRPS requirements.
[NPRR1250:  Replace Section 14.9 above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
14.9	[RESERVED]
14.9.1	Annual Capacity Targets
(1)	The solar renewable energy capacity targets (in megawatts) for each year are as follows:
Annual Capacity Target
 (MW)	Compliance Period
(Years)
1,310	2024
655	2025
(2)	RECs may be produced by generators certified by the PUCT which are not located in Texas if:
(a)	The first metering point for such generation is in Texas; and
(b)	All generation metered at the location of injection into the Texas grid comes from that generator.
(3)	REC generators physically located outside the state of Texas are not included in the annual calculations of installed renewable capacity for purposes of the REC Trading Program.  However, as such generation may contribute to the available pool of RECs, it is conceivable that there may be sufficient RECs to allow Retail Entities to meet their annual requirements, while at the same time, a target capacity shortfall for installed renewable capacity in Texas could exist.
[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.9.1 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.9.2	Capacity Conversion Factor
(1)	ERCOT shall set the Capacity Conversion Factor (CCF) to allocate credits to Retail Entities.  ERCOT shall determine a new CCF as follows:
Individual Facility CCF i = (12/n)* HO i, t / (HC i, t * h) 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
h	None	Number of hours in the Compliance Period.  h = 8,760 for the 2024 Compliance Period and 5,840 for the 2025 Compliance Period.
i	None	Individual solar renewable energy generation facility
n	None	Number of months a specific solar renewable energy generation facility was in operation over the past 24 months.  n must be greater than or equal to 12 and less than or equal to 24.
HO i, t	MWh	Total production by participating solar renewable generator i during Compliance Period t.
HC i, t	MW	Average total generation capacity by participating solar renewable generator i during Compliance Period t.
and 
CCF =   (CCF i * PC i) /  PC i 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
q	None	The total number of solar renewable energy generation facilities in the REC Trading Program
PC i	MW	Participating Capacity as of September 30 of the year the revised CCF is calculated for solar renewable energy generation facility i in the state of Texas participating in the REC Trading Program for which at least 12 months of operating data are available.
(2)	The CCF shall:
(a)	Be based on actual solar generator performance data for calendar years 2022 and 2023 all solar renewable Resources in the REC Trading Program during that period for which at least 12 months of performance data are available;
(b)	Represent a weighted average of generator performance; and
(c)	Use all actual generator performance data that are available for each solar renewable Resource, excluding data for testing periods.
(3)	For purposes of calculating historical output from renewable capacity, ERCOT shall keep a list of renewable generators, REC certification dates, and annual MWh generation totals.
(4)	ERCOT shall use this revised CCF for the two Compliance Periods immediately after it is set (calendar years 2024 and 2025).  If the PUCT has determined that the REC Trading Program is failing to meet the statutory targets for solar renewable energy capacity in Texas, it will instruct ERCOT to use a different number than that which would be calculated using the formula for the CCF.  Such requests will be published on the ERCOT website within ten Business Days of receipt of the letter from the PUCT.
[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.9.2 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.9.3	Statewide Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement
(1)	ERCOT shall determine the SSRR for a particular Compliance Period as follows:
SSRR = (ACT  h  CCF) + RCP
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
ACT	MW	Annual Capacity Target for new solar renewable energy generation facilities.
h	None	Number of hours in the Compliance Period.  h = 8,760 for the 2024 Compliance Period and 5,840 for the 2025 Compliance Period.
CCF	None	Capacity Conversion Factor.
RCP	None	The number of Compliance Premiums retired from solar Resources only during the previous Compliance Period.

[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.9.3 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.9.3.1	Preliminary Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement for Retail Entities
(1)	ERCOT shall determine each Retail Entity’s Preliminary SRPS Requirement as follows:
Preliminary SRPS Requirement i = SSRR * (CRSRES i / TS)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
i	None	Specific Retail Entity.
SSRR	REC	Statewide SRPS Requirement.
CRSRES i	MWh	Retail sales of the specific Retail Entity to Texas Customers during the Compliance Period, excluding sales by the specific Retail Entity to any Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) or accounts for which an opt-out notice has been submitted under subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.
TS	MWh	Total retail sales of all Retail Entities to Texas Customers during the Compliance Period, excluding all sales of all Retail Entities to ESI IDs or accounts for which an opt-out notice has been submitted under subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.
(2)	The sum of the Preliminary SRPS Requirements for all Retail Entities shall be equal to the SSRR.
[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.9.3.1 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.9.4	Application of Offsets - Adjusted Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement
(1)	For a Retail Entity that has been awarded offsets by the PUCT, ERCOT shall subtract the REC offset amount from the Preliminary SRPS Requirement.  The reduction shall not exceed what would be necessary for the FSRR to be zero.  The total MWh reduction in the Preliminary SRPS Requirement for all Retail Entities constitutes Total Useable Offsets (TUOs).
(2)	ERCOT shall determine each Retail Entity’s Adjusted SRPS Requirement (ARR) as follows:
ARR i = Preliminary SRPS Requirement i – EO i
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
i	None	Specific Retail Entity.
EO i 	None	Total offsets the Retail Entity is entitled to receive during the Compliance Period (not to exceed the Retail Entity’s FSRR before adjustment for any previous Compliance Period).
(3)	ERCOT shall determine TUOs as follows: 
TUO = SSRR –  ARR i 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
i	None	Specific Retail Entity.
n	None	Number of Retail Entities.
SSRR	None	Statewide SRPS Requirement.
ARR i	None	Adjusted SRPS Requirement for a specific Retail Entity.

[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.9.4 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.9.5	Final Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard Requirement
(1)	ERCOT shall redistribute the TUO amount over all Retail Entities to determine the FSRRs.  ERCOT shall determine each Retail Entity’s FSRR as follows:
FSRR = ARR i + (TUO  (CRSRES i / TS)) +/- Previous Year(s) FSRR adjustment (recalculated in accordance with subsection (f)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
ARR i	None	Adjusted SRPS Requirement for a specific Retail Entity.
TUO	None	Total Usable Offsets.
CRSRES i	MWh	Retail sales of the Retail Entity to Texas Customers during the Compliance Period, excluding sales by the specific Retail Entity to any ESI IDs or accounts for which an opt-out notice has been submitted under subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.
TS	MWh	Total retail sales of all Retail Entities to Texas Customers during the Compliance Period, excluding all sales or accounts of all Retail Entities to ESI IDs for which an opt-out notice has been submitted under subsection (f) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.
(2)	This process will be an iterative process that will solve until the optimal allocation is reached with all FSRRs resolved to the nearest whole REC.
(3)	ERCOT shall notify each Retail Entity of its FSRR for the previous Compliance Period no later than the date set forth for such Notification in subsection (i)(l) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173.
[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.9.5 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.10	Retiring of Renewable Energy Credits or Compliance Premiums
(1)	A Renewable Energy Credit (REC) or Compliance Premium owner’s Designated Representative must submit retirement requests to ERCOT.  RECs or Compliance Premiums specified by a Designated Representative for retirement must be in the REC trading account from which they are being retired at the time the request is submitted.  ERCOT shall retire such RECs or Compliance Premiums by removing them from the party’s REC trading account and retiring the unique serial number, thus rendering the REC or Compliance Premium unusable for any other purpose.  ERCOT shall maintain records to archive all RECs or Compliance Premiums that have been retired and to identify the basis on which RECs or Compliance Premiums were retired.  The reasons for retiring RECs include mandatory compliance, voluntary retirement, and expiration.  The reasons for retiring Compliance Premiums include mandatory compliance, voluntary retirement, and expiration.
14.10.1	Mandatory Retirement
(1)	For each Compliance Period, by the date set forth in subsection (i)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program, each Retail Entity’s Designated Representative shall notify ERCOT of the RECs or Compliance Premiums in its REC trading account to be used (retired) to satisfy its Final Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) Requirement (FSRR) for the Compliance Period being settled.  Each REC or Compliance Premium that is not used will remain in the holder’s REC trading account until it is transferred to another party’s account, expires, or is otherwise retired.
(2)	Failure to provide sufficient RECs or Compliance Premiums by the date set forth in subsection (i)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173 shall be considered a failure of that Retail Entity to meet its REC retirement obligations.  ERCOT shall notify the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) when any Retail Entity fails to meet its REC retirement obligations.
[NPRR1250:  Delete Section 14.10.1 above on September 1, 2025.]
14.10.2	Voluntary Retirement
(1)	At the request of a REC Account Holder, ERCOT shall retire RECs and Compliance Premiums for reasons other than for meeting the mandated SRPS requirements.  Voluntarily retired RECs and Compliance Premiums may not be used to satisfy a Retail Entity’s SRPS requirement.  ERCOT shall include information concerning RECs and Compliance Premiums retired voluntarily in its annual report to the PUCT.
[NPRR1250:  Replace Section 14.10.2 above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
14.10.1	Voluntary Retirement
(1)	At the request of a REC Account Holder, ERCOT shall retire RECs and Compliance Premiums.  ERCOT shall include information concerning RECs and Compliance Premiums retired voluntarily in its annual report to the PUCT.
14.10.3	Retiring Unused Renewable Energy Credits or Compliance Premiums
(1)	ERCOT shall retire all unused RECs and Compliance Premiums upon their expiration as described in Section 14.3.2, Attributes of Renewable Energy Credits and Compliance Premiums.
14.11	Penalties and Enforcement
(1)	ERCOT is not responsible for developing, administering, or enforcing penalties associated with the Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Trading Program; these activities are within the scope of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).  ERCOT is responsible for informing the PUCT of Retail Entities that do not meet their REC or Compliance Premium retirement obligations, of REC offset generators that do not produce generation sufficient to cover offsets they have been approved to provide, and of other anomalies which may come to ERCOT’s attention through the administration of the REC Trading Program.
14.12	Maintain Public Information
(1)	ERCOT shall maintain public information of interest to buyers and sellers of Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) or Compliance Premiums on the ERCOT website.  The information provided shall include, at a minimum, a directory of all REC generators, Retail Entities, and other participants in the REC Trading Program.  The directory shall include the following information:
(a)	Name of the REC generator, Retail Entity, or other REC Account Holder;
(b)	Name of the Designated Representative;
(c)	Street address or post office box number;
(d)	City, state or province, and zip or postal code;
(e)	Country (if not the United States);
(f)	Phone number;
(g)	Fax number;
(h)	E-mail address (with hypertext link); and
(i)	Website address (with hypertext link).
(2)	REC Account Holders shall describe their participation in the REC Trading Program using one or more of the following choices within a checkbox listing: REC generator, Retail Entity, REC broker, REC trader, REC trading exchange, REC aggregator, or other.
(3)	Entities are responsible for notifying ERCOT of changes in the above information.
(4)	ERCOT shall conspicuously display the following disclaimer in upper case and in bold font:
DISCLAIMER: ERCOT DOES NOT KNOW OR ENDORSE THE CREDIT WORTHINESS OR REPUTATION OF ANY REC ACCOUNT HOLDER LISTED IN THIS DIRECTORY.
(5)	ERCOT may provide other information that describes the REC Trading Program, as it deems convenient or necessary for administering the REC Trading Program.  ERCOT shall maintain a hypertext link to the appropriate pages on the Public Utility Commission of Texas’ (PUCT’s) website that are related to the REC Trading Program.
(6)	ERCOT shall post each month the best available aggregated total energy sales (in MWh) of Retail Entities in Texas for the previous month and year-to-date for the calendar year.  This posting shall be based on Retail Entity Loads provided in accordance with Section 14.5.2, Retail Entities.
(7)	ERCOT shall post a list of Facility Identification Numbers, associated names, locations, and types.
14.13	Submit Annual Report to Public Utility Commission of Texas
(1)	Beginning in 2002, ERCOT shall submit an annual report to the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) on or before the date set forth for such report in subsection (h)(11) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  Such report shall contain the following information pertaining to program operation for the previous Compliance Period:
(a)	MW of existing renewable capacity installed in Texas, by technology type;
(b)	MW of new renewable energy capacity installed in Texas, by technology type;
(c)	List of eligible non-Texas capacity participating in the program, by technology type;
(d)	Summary of Renewable Energy Credit (REC) aggregator activities, submitted in a format specified by the PUCT;
(e)	Owner/operator of each REC generating facility;
(f)	Date each new renewable energy facility began to produce energy;
(g)	MWh of energy generated by renewable energy Resources as demonstrated through data supplied in accordance with these Protocols;
(h)	List of renewable energy unit retirements;
(i)	List of all Retail Entities participating in the REC Trading Program;
(j)	Final Solar Renewable Portfolio Standard (SRPS) Requirement (FSRR) of each Retail Entity;
(k)	Number of REC offsets used by each Retail Entity;
(l)	A list of REC offset generators, REC offsets awarded and MWh production from each such generator on an annual basis;
(m)	Number of RECs retired by each program participant by category (mandatory compliance, voluntary retirement, expiration, and total retirements);
(n)	Number of Compliance Premiums retired by each program participant by category (mandatory compliance, expiration, and total retirements); 
(o)	List of all Retail Entities in compliance with SRPS requirement; and
(p)	List of all Retail Entities not in compliance with SRPS requirement including the number of RECs by which they were deficient.
[NPRR1250:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following on September 1, 2025:]
(1)	Beginning in 2002, ERCOT shall submit an annual report to the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) on or before the date set forth for such report in subsection (h)(11) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.173, Renewable Energy Credit Program.  Such report shall contain the following information pertaining to program operation for the previous Compliance Period:
(a)	MW of existing renewable capacity installed in Texas, by technology type;
(b)	MW of new renewable energy capacity installed in Texas, by technology type;
(c)	List of eligible non-Texas capacity participating in the program, by technology type;
(d)	Summary of Renewable Energy Credit (REC) aggregator activities, submitted in a format specified by the PUCT;
(e)	Owner/operator of each REC generating facility;
(f)	Date each new renewable energy facility began to produce energy;
(g)	MWh of energy generated by renewable energy Resources as demonstrated through data supplied in accordance with these Protocols;
(h)	List of renewable energy unit retirements;
(i)	List of all Retail Entities participating in the REC Trading Program;
(j)	Number of REC offsets used by each Retail Entity;
(k)	A list of REC offset generators, REC offsets awarded and MWh production from each such generator on an annual basis;
(l)	Number of RECs retired by each program participant by category (mandatory compliance, voluntary retirement, expiration, and total retirements); and
(m)	Number of Compliance Premiums retired by each program participant by category (mandatory compliance, expiration, and total retirements).

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 15:  Customer Registration

April 1, 2025


 
15	CUSTOMER REGISTRATION	15-1
15.1	Customer Switch of Competitive Retailer	15-2
15.1.1	Submission of a Switch Request	15-2
15.1.1.1	Notification to Customer of Switch Request	15-2
15.1.1.2	Provision of Historical Usage	15-2
15.1.1.2.1	Provision of Historical Usage with a Switch Request	15-2
15.1.1.2.2	Ad Hoc Requests for Historical Usage	15-3
15.1.1.3	Switch Enrollment Notification Request to TDSP	15-3
15.1.1.4	Response from TDSP to Registration Notification Request	15-3
15.1.1.5	Response to Valid Enrollment Request	15-4
15.1.1.6	Loss Notification to Current Competitive Retailer (with date)	15-5
15.1.1.7	Completion of Switch Request and Effective Switch Date	15-5
15.1.1.8	Rejection of Switch Request	15-5
15.1.2	Response from ERCOT to Drop to Affiliate Retail Electric Provider Request	15-6
15.1.3	Transition Process	15-7
15.1.3.1	Mass Transition Process	15-7
15.1.3.2	Acquisition Transfer Process	15-7
15.1.3.3	Customer Billing Contact Information	15-8
15.1.4	Beginning Service (New Construction Completed and Move Ins)	15-8
15.1.4.1	Move-In Request to Begin Electric Service	15-8
15.1.4.2	Response to Invalid Move-In Request	15-9
15.1.4.3	Notification to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider of Move In	15-10
15.1.4.4	Response to Enrollment Notification Request from Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (Move In)	15-10
15.1.4.5	Response to Valid Move-In Request	15-12
15.1.4.5.1	Maintain Electric Service Identifier with Meter Level Information Request/Response	15-12
15.1.4.6	Notification to Current Competitive Retailer	15-13
15.1.4.6.1	Complete Unexecutable	15-13
15.1.4.7	Completion of Move-In Request and Effective Move In Date	15-13
15.1.4.7.1	Standard Move-In Requests	15-13
15.1.4.7.2	Same Day Move-In Requests	15-14
15.1.4.8	Rejection of Move-In Request	15-15
15.1.5	Service Termination (Move Out)	15-15
15.1.5.1	Request to Terminate Service	15-15
15.1.5.2	Response to Invalid Move-Out Request	15-16
15.1.5.3	Notification to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider of Move Out	15-16
15.1.5.4	Response to Enrollment Notification Request/Service Termination from Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider	15-17
15.1.5.5	Response to Valid Move-Out Request and Continuous Service Agreement in Effect	15-19
15.1.5.6	Completion of Move-Out Request and Effective Move Out Date	15-19
15.1.5.7	Rejection of Move-Out Request	15-20
15.1.6	Concurrent Processing	15-20
15.1.6.1	Move In Date Prior to or After Move Out Date	15-21
15.1.6.2	Move In Date Equal to Move Out Date	15-21
15.1.6.3	Move In Date Prior to or Equal to Switch Date	15-21
15.1.6.4	Move In Date After Switch Date	15-22
15.1.6.5	Move In Date After Mass Transition Drop Date	15-22
15.1.6.6	Move Out Date Prior to or Equal to Switch Date	15-22
15.1.6.7	Move Out Date After Switch Date	15-22
15.1.6.8	Move Out Date After Mass Transition Drop Date	15-22
15.1.6.9	Multiple Switches	15-23
15.1.6.10	Multiple Move Ins	15-23
15.1.6.11	Multiple Move Outs	15-23
15.1.7	Move In or Move Out Date Change	15-23
15.1.8	Cancellation of Registration Transactions	15-24
15.1.9	Continuous Service Agreement CR Processing	15-25
15.1.9.1	Request to Initiate Continuous Service Agreement in an Investor Owned Utility Service Territory or in a Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Service Territory as Indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, Municipally Owned Utility and/or Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Market	15-25
15.1.9.2	Request to Change Continuous Service Agreement End Date	15-25
15.1.9.3	Request to Terminate Continuous Service Agreement	15-25
15.1.9.4	Notice to Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer of Enrollment Due to a Move Out	15-25
15.1.9.5	Notice to Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer of Drop Due to a Move In	15-26
15.1.10	Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer Processing in Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Service Territory	15-26
15.1.10.1	Request to Initiate Continuous Service Agreement	15-26
15.1.10.2	Request to Change Continuous Service Agreement End Date	15-27
15.1.10.3	Request to Terminate Continuous Service Agreement	15-27
15.1.10.4	Notice to Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer of Enrollment Due to a Move Out	15-27
15.1.10.5	Notice to Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer of Drop Due to a Move In	15-28
15.2	Database Queries	15-28
15.2.1	Find ESI ID Function on the Market Information System	15-29
15.2.2	Find Transaction Function on the Market Information System	15-30
15.2.3	Electric Service Identifier Extract on the Market Information System	15-30
15.3	Monthly Meter Reads	15-30
15.4	Electric Service Identifier	15-31
15.4.1	Electric Service Identifier Format	15-31
15.4.1.1	Assignment of ESI IDs to Unmetered Service Delivery Points	15-31
15.4.1.2	Assignment of ESI IDs to metered Service Delivery Points	15-32
15.4.1.3	Splitting a Service Delivery Point into Multiple ESI IDs	15-32
15.4.1.4	New Electric Service Identifier Creation	15-33
15.4.1.5	Electric Service Identifier Maintenance	15-33
 
15	CUSTOMER REGISTRATION
(1)	ERCOT shall maintain a registration database of all metered and unmetered Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) in Texas for Customer Choice.
(2)	ERCOT will notify the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) and the affected Competitive Retailer (CR) if a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) fails to meet its Customer switch responsibilities under the ERCOT Protocols.
(3)	All CRs with Customers in Texas, whether operating inside the ERCOT Region or not, shall be required to register their Customers in accordance with this Section.
(4)	All Customer registration processes will be conducted using the appropriate Texas Standard Electronic Transactions (TX SETs).  Definitions of all TX SET codes referenced in this Section can be found in Section 19, Texas Standard Electronic Transaction.  A reference to any TX SET transaction should be read as referring to the named transaction or its Market Information System (MIS) equivalent, if any.  Transaction flow diagrams for Customer registration processing are posted on the ERCOT website.
(5)	ERCOT will reject any initiating transaction due to date reasonableness if the requested implementation date is of more than 90 days in the future or 270 days in the past.  Initiating transactions are:  814_01, Switch Request; 814_16, Move In Request; and 814_24, Move Out Request.  ERCOT will reject an 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request, transaction with a requested start date of more than 90 days in the future or a requested start date in the past.
(6)	ERCOT will prioritize initiating or inbound transactions in the following manner.  The following timing requirement calculations will not include the duration of a planned and TAC subcommittee-approved ERCOT retail system outage:
(a)	Level 1 – Same day 814_16 transactions, same day 814_24 transactions, 814_01 transactions and 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Requests (Create), will be processed in one Retail Business Hour.
(b)	Level 2 – Standard 814_16 transactions and standard 814_24 transactions will be processed in two Retail Business Hours.
(c)	Level 3 – 867_02, Historical Usage, 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Requests (Maintain and Retire), will be processed in four Retail Business Hours.
(d)	Level 4 – All 814_26, Historical Usage Requests, 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Requests, and 814_19, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Responses, will be processed in one Retail Business Day.
(7)	For transactions to flow through ERCOT, back-dated transactions for a market-approved corrective action must meet the date reasonableness test.  Market Participants must work with ERCOT for any manual changes to transactions that fall outside these dates for market-approved corrective action.  However, a TDSP will reject a back-dated transaction that is not part of a market-approved transaction.
(8)	For more information concerning the requirements for transaction processing in the retail market, please refer to the Retail Market Guide. 
15.1	Customer Switch of Competitive Retailer
(1)	The following process shall be followed for a Competitive Retailer (CR) to switch an Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID).
15.1.1	Submission of a Switch Request
(1)	The CR shall submit a Switch Request to ERCOT using the 814_01, Switch Request.  The Switch Request shall include, at a minimum, the five-digit zip code and an ESI ID.  Within this transaction, the CR will also send information necessary for ERCOT to send a switch confirmation notice to the Customer as required by the applicable Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) rules.  The First Available Switch Date (FASD) is the day received by ERCOT unless received on a Sunday or an ERCOT holiday.  If received on a Sunday or an ERCOT holiday, the FASD will be calculated as the next day that is not a Sunday or an ERCOT holiday.
15.1.1.1	Notification to Customer of Switch Request
(1)	ERCOT will send a switch confirmation notice to the Customer as specified in the PUCT rules.  This notice will give the Customer information regarding the Switch Request as described in the PUCT rules.
15.1.1.2	Provision of Historical Usage
(1)	A request for historical usage may be submitted along with a Switch Request or as an ad hoc request.
15.1.1.2.1	Provision of Historical Usage with a Switch Request
(1)	If requested by the switching CR in the Switch Request, the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) shall provide the most recent 12 months of historical usage, if available, to ERCOT, including monthly metered usage for the Customer’s ESI ID and any applicable metered interval usage in accordance with the 867_02, Historical Usage.  ERCOT’s business process for Switch Requests is not linked to the receipt of the historical usage and the processing of the switch will continue regardless of the TDSP returning historical usage.  Upon receipt of the historical usage from the TDSP, ERCOT shall forward the 867_02 transaction to the CR Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number provided by the TDSP within four Retail Business Hours.
(2)	Provision of meter read and historical usage data pursuant to this paragraph shall not be required when it would be prohibited by PUCT rules.
15.1.1.2.2	Ad Hoc Requests for Historical Usage
(1)	To request historical usage on an ad hoc basis, the CR of Record must submit an 814_26, Historical Usage Request, to ERCOT.  Within one Retail Business Day of receipt of an 814_26 transaction from a CR, ERCOT shall notify the TDSP of the ad-hoc request using the 814_26 transaction.  The TDSP shall provide the requested information to ERCOT within two Retail Business Days of receipt of the 814_26 transaction using the 814_27, Historical Usage Response.  ERCOT shall forward the usage information to the CR of Record using the 814_27 transaction within one Retail Business Day of receipt of the 814_27 transaction from the TDSP.  The TDSP shall provide the most recent 12 months of historical usage, if available, to ERCOT, including monthly, metered usage for the Customer’s ESI ID information and any applicable metered interval usage in accordance with the 867_02, Historical Usage.  ERCOT will send the 867_02 transaction to the CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_02 transaction by the TDSP within four Retail Business Hours of receipt from the TDSP.
(2)	Provision of meter read and historical usage data pursuant to this paragraph shall not be required when prohibited by PUCT rules.
15.1.1.3	Switch Enrollment Notification Request to TDSP
(1)	ERCOT will submit to the TDSP serving the ESI ID, an enrollment notification request using the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, within one Retail Business Hour of the receipt of a valid Switch Request.  The notification will include the name of the CR requesting service to the ESI ID and will indicate the FASD calculated pursuant to Section 15.1.1, Submission of a Switch Request.
15.1.1.4	Response from TDSP to Registration Notification Request
(1)	Upon receipt of an enrollment notification request, the TDSP shall provide ESI ID information to ERCOT, including:
(a)	ESI ID;
(b)	Service Address;
(c)	Rate class and sub-class, if applicable;
(d)	Special needs indicator;
(e)	Load Profile Type;
(f)	Scheduled meter read date;
(g)	Meter type, identification number, number of dials and role for each meter at the ESI ID if the ESI ID is metered;
(h)	Number and description of each unmetered device for unmetered ESI IDs;
(i)	Station ID; and
(j)	Distribution Loss Factor (DLF) code.
(2)	This information shall be transmitted using the 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, within two Retail Business Days of the receipt of the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request.  If the TDSP does not respond with the ESI ID information within two Retail Business Days after the receipt of the 814_03 transaction from ERCOT, ERCOT shall create an internal tracking exception.  The switch will be held in “in review” status until the TDSP’s 814_04 transaction response is received.  If the TDSP’s 814_04 transaction is not received within three Retail Business Days of receipt of the 814_03 transaction from ERCOT and is still not received by the earlier of the requested date on the switch or within 20 Retail Business Days after the original submission of the 814_03 transaction from ERCOT, ERCOT shall change the status of the switch to “cancel pending.”  The TDSP will receive notification of the pending switch cancellation through the 814_08, Cancel Request.  The TDSP will respond using the 814_09, Cancel Response.  If the 814_09 transaction is an “accept,” the submitting CR will receive notification of the switch cancellation through the 814_08 transaction.  Any other CR involved in the request to which an 814_06, Loss Notification, has been sent will also receive notification of the switch cancellation through the 814_08 transaction.  If the 814_09 transaction from the TDSP is a reject, the switch will return to an “in review” status and the TDSP shall also transmit an 814_04 transaction within one Retail Business Day.  
(3)	If the TDSP responds to ERCOT’s 814_03 transaction with an 814_04 transaction and then later submits an 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required, indicating the TDSP is unable to complete the switch, ERCOT will send the TDSP’s 814_28 transaction to the requesting CR.  The TDSP will note the complete unexecutable reason on the 814_28 transaction.  The initiating transaction is considered unexecutable.  The current CR will remain the CR of Record.
15.1.1.5	Response to Valid Enrollment Request
(1)	Within one Retail Business Day of receipt of the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, ERCOT will respond to the requesting CR in accordance with the 814_05, CR Enrollment Notification Response.  This response will contain the scheduled meter read date for the switch and all information the TDSP furnished to ERCOT under the TDSP’s 814_04 transaction.  The TDSP must effectuate the switch within two Retail Business Days of the scheduled meter read date.
15.1.1.6	Loss Notification to Current Competitive Retailer (with date)
(1)	Within two Retail Business Days of the scheduled meter read date for the switch, but not before the receipt of the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, ERCOT will notify the current CR using the 814_06, Loss Notification.  This notification will contain the scheduled meter read date for the switch.
15.1.1.7	Completion of Switch Request and Effective Switch Date
(1)	A Switch Request is effectuated on the actual meter read date in the 867_04, Initial Meter Read, or the final 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, which must be equal to the scheduled meter read date.  The process for a specific Switch Request is complete upon receipt of the effectuating meter read sent by the TDSP.  The TDSP shall send the meter read information to ERCOT using the 867_03 transaction and 867_04 transaction within three Retail Business Days of the meter read.  This transaction will contain an effectuating meter read indicator.  If the TDSP has made every reasonable effort to get the actual data for the meter read and absolutely cannot, the TDSP may estimate the reading for the ESI ID, regardless of the meter type or Customer class.  When an estimate occurs on a demand meter, the demand indicator has not been reset.  Upon receipt, ERCOT will send final meter read information to the current CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_03 transaction by the TDSP and initial meter read information to the new CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_04 transaction by the TDSP using the 867_03 transaction and 867_04 transaction, as appropriate.  Meter reads will be sent to the CR DUNS Number within the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) transaction from the TDSP within 12 hours of receipt by ERCOT.
(2)	Failure by ERCOT to provide the initial meter read information does not change the Mass Transition Effective Date of the switch.
(3)	Switches shall become effective at 0000 (midnight) on the actual date of the effectuating meter read.  The new CR may request a special meter read (including a profile-estimated meter read or interval meter calculation as allowed), in accordance with the TDSP’s tariff.  For a special meter read, the switch is effective at 0000 (midnight) the day of the special meter read.  During the switch process, the Customer will continue to be served by its current CR.
15.1.1.8	Rejection of Switch Request
(1)	ERCOT will process Switch Requests upon receipt during Business Hours.  If the request is invalid, i.e., meets one of the requirements as identified in this Section, ERCOT will respond to the CR with the 814_02, Switch Reject Response, within one Retail Business Hour of ERCOT’s receipt of the Switch Request, and the switch process will terminate.
(2)	ERCOT will reject a Switch Request using the 814_02 transaction for any of the following reasons:
(a)	The ESI ID provided is inactive or does not exist;
(b)	The ESI ID and five digit zip code do not match;
(c)	The CR is not certified by the PUCT, if required;
(d)	The CR is not authorized to provide service in the TDSP service area;
(e)	The CR has not registered as a CR with ERCOT in accordance with Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants;
(f)	The PUCT directs ERCOT to reject registration requests from the CR per applicable PUCT rules;
(g)	The standard Switch Request was received after a valid standard Switch Request was scheduled for the same date;
(h)	The CR specifies a billing type or bill calculation code for an ESI ID that is not supported by the TDSP, Municipally Owned Utility (MOU), or Electric Cooperative (EC);
(i)	The CR submits a Switch Request type that is invalid or undefined;
(j)	The CR is already the CR of Record for the ESI ID or scheduled to be the CR of Record for the ESI ID on the requested date;
(k)	The Customer notification name or address is required but invalid according to Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) standards or is missing;
(l)	The CR Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number is missing or invalid;
(m)	If requesting a self-selected switch date, the CR requests a switch date that is before the FASD;
(n)	The date on the self-selected switch already has a move in, move out, or switch scheduled; or
(o)	The ESI ID is de-energized or scheduled to be de-energized on the date requested in the switch.  For standard requests, the FASD is used for the evaluation.
15.1.2	Response from ERCOT to Drop to Affiliate Retail Electric Provider Request
(1)	ERCOT will send a reject response using the 814_11, Drop Response, within one Retail Business Day to the current CR notifying the CR that the request is invalid.  
15.1.3	Transition Process
(1)	Certain circumstances may arise during the course of business in the Texas retail electric market that may necessitate the transition of ESI IDs from one CR to a Provider of Last Resort (POLR) or designated CR, or from one TDSP to another TDSP in quantities and on a time frame that is not completely supported by standard market transactions or business processes. 
15.1.3.1	Mass Transition Process 
(1)	In a Mass Transition event, ERCOT shall submit the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, requesting a meter read for the associated ESI IDs, for a date two days after the date ERCOT initiates such transactions to the TDSP.  The 814_03 transaction shall contain a request for historical usage and the requested date for the meter read date to transfer the ESI IDs.  If an actual meter read cannot be obtained by the date requested in the 814_03 transaction, then the meter read may be estimated by the TDSP.  (See Retail Market Guide Section 9, Appendices, Appendix F2, Timeline for Initiation of a Mass Transition on a Business Day not Prior to a Weekend or ERCOT Holiday.)   
(2)	The TDSP shall respond to the 814_03 transaction within two Retail Business Days with an 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, and an 867_02, Historical Usage.  Within one Retail Business Day of receiving the 814_04 transaction, ERCOT will send an 814_11, Drop Response, to the transitioning CR and forward an 814_14, Drop Enrollment Request, with the scheduled meter read date, to the POLR(s) or designated CR.  The TDSP shall submit an 867_04, Initial Meter Read, with a meter read date equal to the scheduled meter read date in the 814_04 transaction, which will also be known as the transition date.  (See Retail Market Guide Section 9, Appendix D1, Transaction Timing Matrix, for specific transaction timings.) 
(3)	ERCOT shall identify and monitor transitioned ESI IDs for a period of 60 days from the Mass Transition Date, as defined in the Retail Market Guide.  Identification of the transitioned ESI ID shall terminate either upon the first completed switch, move in, move out, or at the end of the 60 day period, whichever occurs first.
(4)	For a detailed outline of the business process and responsibilities of all Entities involved in a Mass Transition event, refer to the Retail Market Guide Section 7, Market Processes.  
15.1.3.2	Acquisition Transfer Process 
(1)	In an Acquisition Transfer event, ERCOT shall submit the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, requesting a meter read for the associated ESI IDs.  The 814_03 transaction shall contain a request for historical usage and the requested date or FASD for the meter read date to transfer the ESI IDs.  If an actual meter read cannot be obtained by the date requested in the 814_03 transaction, then the meter read may be estimated by the TDSP.
(2)	The TDSP shall respond to the 814_03 transaction within two Retail Business Days with an 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, and an 867_02, Historical Usage.  Within one Retail Business Day of receiving the 814_04 transaction, ERCOT will send an 814_11, Drop Response, to the transitioning CR and forward an 814_14, Drop Enrollment Request, with the scheduled meter read date, to the designated CR.  The TDSP shall submit an 867_04, Initial Meter Read, with a meter read date equal to the scheduled meter read date in the 814_04 transaction, which will also be known as the transition date.  See Retail Market Guide Section 9, Appendices, Appendix D1, Transaction Timing Matrix, for specific transaction timings.
(3)	For a detailed outline of the business process and responsibilities of all Entities involved in an Acquisition Transfer event, refer to the Retail Market Guide Section 7, Market Processes.
15.1.3.3	Customer Billing Contact Information 
(1)	All CRs participating in the Texas retail electric market shall provide, in accordance with the Retail Market Guide, current Customer billing contact information to ERCOT for use in the event of a Mass Transition.  ERCOT shall retain the Customer data from the most recent submission, to be used in lieu of data from the exiting CR, in instances where the exiting CR does not provide data.  When a Mass Transition occurs, ERCOT shall provide the Gaining CRs with available Customer billing contact information for the ESI IDs the Gaining CRs will be obtaining through the Mass Transition event.  During a Mass Transition event, ERCOT shall also provide the TDSPs with available Customer contact information.
(2)	For a detailed outline of the process, refer to the Retail Market Guide Section 7, Market Processes.
15.1.4	Beginning Service (New Construction Completed and Move Ins)
(1)	This Section applies to Customers moving into a Premise that is not currently being served by a CR (may or may not still be energized) or when construction has been completed by the TDSP for a new Premise and the Premise has been assigned an ESI ID and is ready to receive electric service.
(2)	This Section does not apply to instances where construction services are required.  Those procedures are covered in the TDSP tariff.
15.1.4.1	Move-In Request to Begin Electric Service
(1)	The process described below relates to the transactions required to process a move in.  A manual work-around process for same day and safety net move ins is also used by Market Participants in the Texas retail electric market to ensure that a Customer receives electric service in a timely manner.  The manual work-around process is documented in the Retail Market Guide.  
(2)	In accordance with PUCT rules, the Customer shall contact a CR to begin electric service at an ESI ID.  The CR shall submit to ERCOT a Move-In Request in accordance with 814_16, Move In Request.  Move ins will be considered same day, if the date requested is the same day the 814_16 transaction is processed at ERCOT.  Same day move ins will be forwarded to the TDSP within one Retail Business Hour of receipt by ERCOT.  Standard move ins, those move ins not requesting same day services, will be forwarded to the TDSP within one Retail Business Hour of receipt by ERCOT.
(3)	Two Retail Business Days prior to the scheduled meter read date of the move in or upon receipt of the TDSP 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, whichever is later, ERCOT will determine if the ESI ID is currently served or is scheduled to be served by another CR.  If a move out from the current CR is scheduled for the same day as the move in, the TDSP will either complete both the move out and move in or will unexecute the move out, only working the move in.  If, within four Retail Business Days of the scheduled date, the move out is still in a scheduled state, ERCOT shall cancel the move out and send cancellation notices to the TDSP and the respective CRs.  ERCOT will submit an 814_06, Loss Notification, to the current CR with a code indicating a forced move out.
(4)	If requested by the CR in the Move-In Request and permitted under the PUCT rules, the TDSP shall provide up to 12 months of the most recent historical usage, as available, including monthly-metered usage and any applicable metered interval usage using the 867_02, Historical Usage.  ERCOT’s business process for a Move-In Request is not linked to the receipt of the historical usage and the processing of the move in will continue regardless of the TDSP returning historical usage.  This information shall be provided to the CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_02 transaction by the TDSP within four Retail Business Hours after ERCOT receipt of the 867_02 transaction from the TDSP.  The TDSP shall respond within two Retail Business Days after receipt of the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request.  If historical usage is not available, the TDSP will indicate this in the 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response.
15.1.4.2	Response to Invalid Move-In Request
(1)	If the Move-In Request is invalid, ERCOT will respond to the CR using the 814_17, Move In Reject Response, within one Retail Business Hour of receiving the 814_16, Move In Request, with the exception of a move in that is invalid because of “Invalid ESI ID.”  In the case of “Invalid ESI ID,” ERCOT will hold the Move-In Request and continue to retry the request at regular intervals for 48 hours counting only hours on Retail Business Days, but not only Business Hours.  If the request is invalid in accordance with Section 15.1.4.8, Rejection of Move-In Request, the move in process will then terminate.  If the request is valid, the process continues as described in Section 15.1.4.5, Response to Valid Move-In Request.
15.1.4.3	Notification to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider of Move In
(1)	ERCOT will process Move-In Requests upon receipt during Business Hours.  ERCOT will submit to the TDSP serving the ESI ID an 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, within one Retail Business Hour of receiving a valid Move-In Request.  The notification will include the name of the new CR providing service to the ESI ID and will include the requested move in date by the CR.
(2)	If the TDSP receives the 814_03 transaction before 1700, a same day move in will be completed that day.
15.1.4.4	Response to Enrollment Notification Request from Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (Move In)
(1)	Upon receipt of an enrollment notification request, the TDSP shall provide ESI ID information within the 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, including:
(a)	ESI ID;
(b)	Service Address;
(c)	Rate class (if established*) and sub-class (if established*), if applicable;
(d)	Special needs indicator;
(e)	Load Profile Type;
(f)	Scheduled meter read date;
(g)	Meter type and role for each meter at the ESI ID, if ESI ID is metered;
(h)	Identification number and number of dials for each meter at the ESI ID, if ESI ID is metered (if meter is present);
(i)	For unmetered EDS IDs, number and description of each unmetered device (if devices are present*);
(j)	Station ID;
(k)	DLF code;
(l)	Premise type; and
(m)	Meter reading cycle or meter cycle by day of the month.
*	If not sent on the 814_04 transaction, the TDSP must send the rate class and sub-class on the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request, when established, to complete the move in.  The TDSP must send the 814_20 transaction prior to sending the monthly usage in the 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage.  ERCOT will neither hold transactions nor validate the order of receipt of these transactions prior to sending to the CRs.
(2)	If the TDSP does not respond with either the 814_04 transaction or the 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required, within two Retail Business Days after receiving the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, ERCOT shall create an internal tracking exception.  The move in will be held “in review” until the TDSP’s 814_04 transaction or 814_28 transaction is received.  If the TDSP’s 814_04 transaction or 814_28 transaction, Permit Required, is not received within three Retail Business Days of receipt of the 814_03 transaction from ERCOT and is still not received by the earlier of the requested date on the move in or within 20 Retail Business Days after the original submission of the 814_03 transaction from ERCOT, ERCOT shall change the status of the move in to “cancel pending” status.  The TDSP will receive notification of the pending cancellation through the 814_08, Cancel Request.  The TDSP will respond using the 814_09, Cancel Response, within one Retail Business Day of receiving ERCOT’s 814_08 transaction.  If the 814_09 transaction is accepted, relevant CRs will receive notification of the cancellation through the 814_08 transaction.  If the 814_09 transaction from the TDSP is a reject, the move in will return to an “in review” status and the TDSP shall also transmit an 814_04 transaction or 814_28 transaction, Permit Required, within one Retail Business Day.
(3)	If the meter is present at the Premise at the time the TDSP receives the 814_03 transaction from ERCOT, and the TDSP responds with the 814_04 transaction, the information as identified in paragraph (1) above shall be transmitted from the TDSP to ERCOT using the 814_04 transaction.  ERCOT shall forward ESI ID/Premise information using the 814_05, CR Enrollment Notification Response, to the requesting CR.
(4)	If a meter has not been established at the ESI ID/Premise at the time when the TDSP receives the 814_03 transaction from ERCOT for a move in, the TDSP may respond with the 814_04 transaction without meter information, TDSP rate class and sub-class, and the number and description of un-metered devices to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall forward the ESI ID/Premise information using the 814_05 transaction to the requesting CR.  If the TDSP submits the 814_04 transaction with the information as identified in this paragraph, the TDSP will submit this missing information to ERCOT using the 814_20 transaction when established to complete the process.  ERCOT shall forward the ESI ID/Premise information received from the TDSP’s 814_20 transaction to the requesting CR within four Retail Business Hours of receipt from the TDSP.  
(5)	If the TDSP responds to ERCOT’s 814_03 transaction for a move in with an 814_28 transaction, Permit Required, ERCOT shall send this transaction within two Retail Business Hours to the requesting CR to notify that a permit is required.  Upon receipt of the TDSP’s 814_28 transaction, ERCOT will reset the 20 Retail Business Day clock, starting the clock on the requested date for the move in, and will separately track the non-response for the 814_04 transaction due to permit required.  The move in remains in a “permit pending” status.
(6)	After expiration of the 20 Retail Business Days, non-response for the 814_04 transaction because the TDSP has not received the permit, ERCOT will initiate the 814_08 transaction to the TDSP the first Retail Business Day after expiration of the 20 Retail Business Day clock, and will set the status to “cancel pending.”  The TDSP will respond to ERCOT using the 814_09 transaction.  If the TDSP receives the appropriate permit prior to the receipt of the 814_08 transaction from ERCOT, the TDSP will submit the 814_04 transaction with the scheduled move in date and the 814_09 transaction with a status of reject and the move in process will proceed.  If the TDSP responds with the 814_09 transaction with a status of accept, ERCOT will cancel the move in, note the cancel reason as “permit not received,” and send the cancellation notice to the appropriate CRs.
(7)	If the TDSP responds to ERCOT’s 814_03 transaction with the 814_04 transaction, and then later submits the 814_28 transaction, ERCOT will send the TDSP’s 814_28 transaction to the requesting CR.  The TDSP will note the complete unexecutable reason on the 814_28 transaction.  The initiating transaction is considered cancelled in ERCOT, TDSP and CR systems and the current CR remains the CR of Record for that Premise or the Premise remains in a de-energized status.  
(8)	If after submitting a 814_04 transaction on a forced move out, the TDSP is unable to obtain an actual meter read despite reasonable efforts the TDSP may complete the move in using an estimated meter read or complete unexecutable if the meter requires a permit, unsafe conditions exist, tampering has been detected or other similar conditions are found that would not allow an actual reading to be obtained.
15.1.4.5	Response to Valid Move-In Request
(1)	ERCOT will respond to the CR using the 814_05, CR Enrollment Notification Response, within one Retail Business Hour of receiving the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, on a same day or standard Move-In Request.  This response will contain the scheduled meter read date for the move in and all other information contained in the TDSP’s 814_04 transaction.
15.1.4.5.1	Maintain Electric Service Identifier with Meter Level Information Request/Response
(1)	If the TDSP returns the 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, without complete information (meter information and/or unmetered device(s) information), the TDSP is required to provide this information to ERCOT in the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request, following the installation of the meter or unmetered devices.  The TDSP must send the 814_20 transaction at the same time or prior to sending the 867_04, Initial Meter Read, to ERCOT.  ERCOT will forward the meter information in the 814_20 transaction and the 867_04 transaction to the CR.
15.1.4.6	Notification to Current Competitive Retailer
(1)	An evaluation is done on the current CR two Retail Business Days prior to the scheduled meter read date, but not before receipt of the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response.  ERCOT will submit to the current CR a notification using the 814_06, Loss Notification, two days before the scheduled meter read date as set forth in the 814_04 transaction.  
(2)	If ERCOT has submitted a notification using the 814_06 transaction to the current CR before the TDSP sends the 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required, to ERCOT, ERCOT will notify the current CR by forwarding the 814_28 transaction to the CR.  The current CR will remain the CR of Record.
15.1.4.6.1	Complete Unexecutable 
(1)	After the new CR has received the Premise information in the 814_05, CR Enrollment Notification Response, the TDSP will wait until the scheduled move in date to energize the Premise.  If upon the field visit to the Premise, the TDSP is unable to execute due to conditions that require Customer resolution and if power is not flowing to the Premise, the TDSP will send a notification request to ERCOT using the 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required.  The transaction will indicate the appropriate reason code for the complete unexecutable of the Move-In Request.  If the move in has been complete unexecutable, ERCOT will internally flag the transaction as complete and will not expect the 867_04, Initial Meter Read, to complete the life cycle.  ERCOT will respond to the TDSP using the 814_29, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required Response.
(2)	If ERCOT receives the 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required, ERCOT will forward the notification to the CR.  In this case the CR will not receive the 867_04 transaction.  Once the condition has been corrected by the Customer, a new set of transactions must be initiated by the CR starting with the 814_16, Move In Request.
15.1.4.7	Completion of Move-In Request and Effective Move In Date
(1)	If upon the field visit to the Premise, the TDSP is unable to obtain a meter read due to conditions that require Customer resolution but power is flowing to the Premise, the TDSP may complete the move in using an estimated meter read or complete unexecutable if the meter requires a permit, unsafe conditions exist, tampering has been detected, or other similar conditions are found that would not allow an actual reading to be taken.
15.1.4.7.1	Standard Move-In Requests
(1)	A standard Move-In Request is effectuated on the period start date in the 867_04, Initial Meter Read, which shall be the date requested in the 814_16, Move In Request, provided that the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, was received by the TDSP by 1700 at least two Retail Business Days prior to the requested date.  If the 814_03 transaction is not received by the TDSP by 1700 at least two Retail Business Days prior to the requested date, the move in will be completed within two Retail Business Days after the receipt of the 814_03 transaction by the TDSP.  An extension of this period may be necessitated by circumstance requiring Customer resolution or construction of new facilities by the TDSP to serve the Premise.
(2)	A Move-In Request is completed upon receipt of the effectuating meter read sent by the TDSP.  Upon receipt, the TDSP will send initial meter read information to ERCOT and ERCOT shall resend to the CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_04 transaction by the TDSP within four Retail Business Hours using the 867_04 transaction.  The 867_04 transaction will be provided to ERCOT within three Retail Business Days of the meter read.
(3)	The move in will become effective at 0000 (midnight) on the actual date of the effectuating meter read.  The new CR may request a special meter read (including a profile-estimated meter read or interval meter calculation as allowed), in accordance with the TDSP’s tariff.  For a special meter read, the move in is effective at 0000 (midnight) the day of the special meter read.  Meter reads will be sent to the CR DUNS Number within the TX SET transaction from the TDSP within 12 hours of receipt by ERCOT.
15.1.4.7.2	Same Day Move-In Requests
(1)	A same day Move-In Request is effectuated on the period start date in the 867_04, Initial Meter Read, which shall be the date requested in the 814_16, Move In Request, provided that the request was received by the TDSP by 1700 on the date requested.  If the TDSP does not receive the same day move in by 1700, the move in will be completed no later than the next Retail Business Day.  An extension of this period may be necessitated by circumstance requiring Customer resolution or construction of new facilities by the TDSP to serve the Premise.
(2)	A Move-In Request is completed upon receipt of the effectuating meter read sent by the TDSP.  Upon receipt, the TDSP will send initial meter read information to ERCOT and ERCOT shall resend to the CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_04 transaction by the TDSP within four Retail Business Hours using the 867_04 transaction.  The 867_04 transaction will be provided to ERCOT within three Retail Business Days of the meter read.
(3)	The move in will become effective at 0000 (midnight) on the actual date of the effectuating meter read.  The new CR may request a special meter read (including a profile-estimated meter read or interval meter calculation as allowed), in accordance with the TDSP’s tariff.  For a special meter read, the move in is effective at 0000 (midnight) the day of the special meter read.  Meter reads will be sent to the CR DUNS Number within the TX SET transaction from the TDSP within 12 hours of receipt by ERCOT.
15.1.4.8	Rejection of Move-In Request
(1)	ERCOT will reject the 814_16, Move In Request, using the 814_17, Move In Reject Response, for any of the following reasons:
(a)	The ESI ID provided is inactive or does not exist;
(b)	The ESI ID and five-digit zip code do not match;
(c)	The CR is not certified by the PUCT, if required;
(d)	The CR is not authorized to provide service in the TDSP service area.
(e)	CR has not registered as a CR with ERCOT in accordance to Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants.
(f)	The PUCT directs ERCOT to reject registration requests from the CR per applicable PUCT rules;
(g)	The CR specifies a billing type or billing calculation code for an ESI ID that is not supported by the TDSP, MOU, or EC;
(h)	The CR submits a request type that is invalid or undefined;
(i)	The CR DUNS Number is missing or invalid; or
(j)	There is already a Move-In Request in progress for the same requested date, “not first in” for the same requested date.
15.1.5	Service Termination (Move Out)
15.1.5.1	Request to Terminate Service
(1)	When a CR receives notice that a Customer is moving out, the CR may terminate service to that ESI ID by submitting a Move-Out Request to ERCOT using the 814_24, Move Out Request.  Move outs will be considered same day, if the date requested is the same day the 814_24 transaction is processed at ERCOT.  Same day move outs will be forwarded to the TDSP within one Retail Business Hour of receipt by ERCOT.  Move outs not requesting same day services, will be forwarded to the TDSP within two Retail Business Hours of receipt by ERCOT.    
(2)	ERCOT will determine if the ESI ID associated with the Premise has a Continuous Service Agreement (CSA) CR.  
(a)	If there is an active CSA with an end date after the move out date on record or a CSA with a start date prior to or equal to the requested date of the move out, ERCOT will notify the TDSP by sending the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, with the move out indicator, within one Retail Business Hour for same day requests and two Retail Business Hours for move outs not requesting same day services.  ERCOT will notify the CSA CR of the move out using the 814_22, CSA CR Move In Request, within two Retail Business Days of the scheduled meter read date, but not before the receipt of the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response.  
(b)	If there is not an active CSA CR or a CSA with a start date prior to or equal to the requested date of the move out, ERCOT will notify the TDSP to de-energize the ESI ID by sending the 814_24 transaction and will remove the requester as the CR of Record for that ESI ID.
(3)	When requesting to terminate service where a CSA exists, the CSA CR may terminate service to that ESI ID by submitting an 814_24 transaction with the “Move Out CSA De-Energize” code to ERCOT.  ERCOT will validate that the submitting CR is the current CSA CR of Record (or pending CSA CR for the move out date submitted).  If the submitting CR is not the current CSA CR of Record, ERCOT will reject the 814_24 transaction by sending the 814_25, Move Out Response.  Move outs will be considered same day if the date requested is the same day the 814_24 transaction is processed at ERCOT.  Same day move outs will be forwarded to the TDSP within one Retail Business Hour of receipt by ERCOT.  Move outs not requesting same day services will be forwarded to the TDSP within two Retail Business Hours of receipt by ERCOT.
15.1.5.2	Response to Invalid Move-Out Request
(1)	If the Move-Out Request is invalid, ERCOT will respond to the CR using the 814_25, Move Out Response, within one Retail Business Hour of receiving the 814_24, Move Out Request, with the exception of a move out that is invalid because of “de-energized ESI ID.”  In the case of “de-energized ESI ID,” ERCOT will hold the Move-Out Request and continue to retry the request at regular intervals for 48 hours counting only hours on Retail Business Days but not only Business Hours.  If the request is invalid, the move out process will then terminate.  If the request is valid, the process continues as described in Section 15.1.5.5, Response to Valid Move-Out Request and Continuous Service Agreement in Effect.
15.1.5.3	Notification to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider of Move Out
(1)	ERCOT will process Move-Out Requests upon receipt during Business Hours.
(2)	If there is a CSA CR for the ESI ID, ERCOT will submit to the TDSP serving the ESI ID a registration notification request using the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, within one Retail Business Hour of receiving a valid same day Move-Out Request and within two Retail Business Hours after receipt of the standard Move-Out Request.  The notification will include the move out date requested by the CR.
(3)	If there is not a CSA CR, ERCOT will notify the TDSP serving the ESI ID of the termination notification within one Retail Business Hour of receiving a valid same day Move-Out Request and within two Retail Business Hours after receipt of the standard Move-Out Request using the 814_24, Move Out Request.  The notification to the TDSP will include the move out date requested by the CR.
15.1.5.4	Response to Enrollment Notification Request/Service Termination from Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider
(1)	If there is a CSA CR, upon receipt of an Enrollment notification request, the TDSP shall provide ESI ID information, including:
(a)	ESI ID;
(b)	Service Address;
(c)	Rate class and sub-class (if applicable);
(d)	Any and all applicable riders;
(e)	Special needs indicator;
(f)	Load Profile Type;
(g)	Scheduled meter read date;
(h)	Meter type, identification number, number of dials and role for each meter at the ESI ID, if ESI ID is metered;
(i)	For unmetered EDS IDs, number and description of each unmetered device;
(j)	Load bus identification; and
(k)	DLF code.
(2)	This information shall be transmitted by the TDSP using the 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, and shall be provided to the CSA CR by ERCOT in the form of an 814_22, CSA CR Move In Request, within two Retail Business Days of the scheduled meter read date on the move out to CSA.  Items (1)(a) and (1)(g) above shall be forwarded to the submitting CR by ERCOT in the form of an 814_25, Move Out Response.  If the TDSP does not respond with ESI ID information within two Retail Business Days after the submission of the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, from ERCOT, ERCOT shall create an internal tracking exception.  The move out to CSA will be held in “in review” status until the TDSP’s 814_04 transaction is received.  If the TDSP’s 814_04 transaction is not received within three Retail Business Days of submission of the 814_03 transaction by ERCOT and is still not received by the earlier of the requested date on the move out to CSA or 20 Retail Business Days after the original submission of the 814_03 transaction from ERCOT, ERCOT shall change the status of the move out to CSA to “cancel pending.”  The TDSP will receive notification of the pending cancellation through the 814_08, Cancel Request.  The TDSP will respond using the 814_09, Cancel Response.  If the 814_09 transaction is an accept, relevant CRs will receive notification of the cancellation through the 814_08 transaction.  If the 814_09 transaction from the TDSP is a reject, the move out to CSA will return to an “in review” status and the TDSP shall also transmit an 814_04 transaction within one Retail Business Day.
(3)	If there is not a CSA CR, upon receipt of a service termination request, the TDSP shall provide ESI ID information, including:
(a)	ESI ID; and
(b)	Scheduled meter read date.
(4)	This information shall be transmitted using the 814_25 transaction and shall be provided by ERCOT to the submitting CR within two Retail Business Hours from ERCOT’s receipt of the TDSP’s 814_25 transaction.  If the TDSP does not respond with ESI ID information within two Retail Business Days after the submission of the 814_24, Move Out Request, by ERCOT, ERCOT shall create an internal tracking exception.  The move out will be held in “in review” status until the TDSP’s 814_25 transaction is received.  If the TDSP’s 814_25 transaction is not received within three Retail Business Days of submission of the 814_24 transaction by ERCOT and is still not received by the earlier of the requested date on the move out or 20 Retail Business Days after the original submission of the 814_24 transaction by ERCOT, ERCOT shall change the status of the move out to “cancel pending.”  The TDSP will receive notification of the pending cancellation through the 814_08, Cancel Request.  The TDSP will respond in accordance with the 814_09, Cancel Response.  If the 814_09 transaction from the TDSP is a reject, the move out will return to an “in review” status and the TDSP shall also transmit an 814_25 transaction within one Retail Business Day.
(5)	If the TDSP responds to ERCOT’s 814_24 transaction with an 814_25 transaction, and then later submits an 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required, indicating the TDSP is unable to complete the move out, ERCOT will send the TDSP’s 814_28 transaction to the requesting CR.  The TDSP will note the complete unexecutable reason on the 814_28 transaction.  The initiating transaction is considered unexecutable.  The current CR will remain the CR of Record.
(6)	If, despite reasonable efforts, the TDSP is unable to complete the move out after submitting the 814_25 transaction, it shall unexecute the move out using the 814_28 transaction, Complete Unexecutable, and the TDSP shall note the complete unexecutable reason on the 814_28 transaction.  ERCOT shall forward the 814_28 transaction to the CR within two Retail Business Hours of receipt from the TDSP.  
(7)	Upon receipt of the 814_28 transaction, the CR will make reasonable attempts to contact the Customer to address access issues if the reason the transaction was unexecuted relates to meter access.  Otherwise, the CR will contact the TDSP in an attempt to address the problems that precluded execution of the transaction.  TDSPs shall provide CRs with a list of contacts for this purpose, including escalation contacts which shall be used by a CR only in the event that the initial contacts fail to respond to the CR within a reasonable time.
(8)	After the CR has made reasonable efforts to either contact the Customer or address issues with the TDSP, the CR may submit a second 814_24 transaction to initiate the move out process.  The CR will submit the second Move-Out Request within 30 days of the receipt of the 814_28 transaction.  If the TDSP continues to encounter difficulty in completing the transaction, the TDSP shall complete the transaction using an estimated meter read and make every reasonable effort to interrupt service at the premise to prevent additional cost to the market, such as Unaccounted for Energy (UFE) and repeated field trips executed by the TDSP to disconnect service or in management of the market-approved manual process for managing the left in hot process.  For Customers who are critical care or critical Load, the CR will contact the appropriate TDSP Retail Electric Provider (REP) relations personnel to address the request.
15.1.5.5	Response to Valid Move-Out Request and Continuous Service Agreement in Effect
(1)	Two Retail Business Days prior to the scheduled meter read date, but not prior to the receipt of the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, ERCOT will send response information to the CSA CR using the 814_22, CSA CR Move In Request.  This notice will contain the confirmed meter read date for the move out.  This date will be the start date for the CSA CR to begin serving the ESI ID.
15.1.5.6	Completion of Move-Out Request and Effective Move Out Date
(1)	A Move-Out Request is effectuated on the actual meter read date in the final 867_03, Monthly of Final Usage, which shall be the date requested in the 814_24, Move Out Request, provided that the request was received by the TDSP by 1700 and at least two Retail Business Days prior to the date requested.  If the request is not received by the TDSP by 1700 at least two days prior to the requested date, the request will be completed within two Retail Business Days after the Move-Out Request is received by the TDSP.  An extension of this period may be necessitated by circumstances requiring Customer resolution, in which case the TDSP may provide an 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required, to the CR.
(2)	A Move-Out Request is completed upon receipt of the effectuating meter read sent by the TDSP.  The TDSP shall send the meter read information to ERCOT using the final 867_03 transaction, within three Retail Business Days of the meter read.  Upon receipt, ERCOT will send final meter read information to the current CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_03 transaction by the TDSP and initial meter read information to the CSA CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_04 transaction by the TDSP (if applicable) within four Retail Business Hours using the 867_03 transaction and 867_04, Initial Meter Read, as appropriate.
(3)	The move out will become effective at 0000 (midnight) on the actual date of the effectuating meter read.  The current CR may request a special meter read (including a profile-estimated meter read or interval meter calculation as allowed), in accordance with the TDSP’s tariff.  
(4)	For a special meter read, the move out is effective at 0000 (midnight) the day of the special meter read.  Meter reads will be sent to the CR DUNS Number within the TX SET transaction from the TDSP within 12 hours of receipt by ERCOT.
15.1.5.7	Rejection of Move-Out Request
(1)	ERCOT will reject a Move-Out Request using the 814_25, Move Out Response, for any of the following reasons:
(a)	The ESI ID provided is inactive or does not exist;
(b)	The ESI ID and five-digit zip code do not match;
(c)	The request type is invalid or undefined;
(d)	The CR’s DUNS Number is missing or invalid;
(e)	The requesting CR is not the current CR and not scheduled to be the CR on the requested date after a retry period of 48 hours counting only hours on Retail Business Days but not only Business Hours;
(f)	The move out is requesting a date that is scheduled on another move out;
(g)	The requesting CR is not the current CSA CR and uses the “Move Out CSA De-Energize” code; or 
(h)	The requesting CR is not the current CSA CR and uses both the “Move Out CSA De-Energize” and the “Drop and Investigate Removal of Meter and Service” codes.
15.1.6	Concurrent Processing
(1)	Concurrent processing permits multiple requests to proceed at the same time.  The purpose of concurrent processing is to assure all valid transactions are accepted and processed according to a set of market rules.  The order of precedence for initiating retail transactions is:
(a)	Move-In Requests;
(b)	Move-Out Requests; and
(c)	Switch Requests.
(2)	When performing concurrent processing checks, ERCOT will first perform standard validations to ensure the requests are valid.  This validation can be found in Section 15.1, Customer Switch of Competitive Retailer, Section 15.1.4, Beginning Service (New Construction Completed and Move Ins), and Section 15.1.5, Service Termination (Move Out).
15.1.6.1	Move In Date Prior to or After Move Out Date
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move in and move out scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If the move in scheduled meter read date is not equal to the move out scheduled meter read date, both processes will run concurrently and both processes will be allowed to complete.  If the submitting CR is not scheduled to be the CR of Record on the scheduled meter read date of the move out, ERCOT cancels the move out.
15.1.6.2	Move In Date Equal to Move Out Date
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move in and move out scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If the move in scheduled meter read date is equal to the move out scheduled meter read date, the move out transaction is cancelled by ERCOT.  If the move out is not scheduled, but the requested date is equal to the scheduled date for the move in, the move out transaction is cancelled by ERCOT.
(2)	If the ERCOT evaluation is performed for a same day move in and a move out is already scheduled for the current day, ERCOT will not cancel the move out and will leave it in a scheduled status.  If the TDSP chooses not to work the move out the TDSP will complete unexecute the move out.  In the event the move out is not complete or complete unexecutable by the TDSP within four Retail Business Days, ERCOT will cancel the move out.
15.1.6.3	Move In Date Prior to or Equal to Switch Date
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move in scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If there is a switch with a scheduled meter read date after or equal to the move -in scheduled meter read date, the switch transaction is cancelled by ERCOT.  If the switch is not scheduled, but the requested date (FASD for standard switches) is after or equal to the scheduled date for the move in, the switch transaction is cancelled by ERCOT.
15.1.6.4	Move In Date After Switch Date
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move in scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If the move in scheduled meter read date is after a switch scheduled meter read date, both processes will run concurrently and both processes will be allowed to complete.
15.1.6.5	Move In Date After Mass Transition Drop Date
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move in scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If the move in scheduled meter read date is after a Mass Transition drop scheduled meter read date, both processes will run concurrently and both processes will be allowed to complete.
15.1.6.6	Move Out Date Prior to or Equal to Switch Date
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move out scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If there is a switch with a scheduled meter read date after or equal to the move out scheduled meter read date, the switch transaction is cancelled by ERCOT.  If the switch is not scheduled, but the requested date (FASD for standard switches) is after or equal to the scheduled date for the move out, the switch transaction is cancelled by ERCOT.
15.1.6.7	Move Out Date After Switch Date
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move out scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If the move out scheduled meter read date is after a switch scheduled meter read date, both processes will run concurrently and both processes will be allowed to complete.  If the submitting CR is not scheduled to be the CR of Record on the scheduled meter read date of the move out, ERCOT cancels the move out.
15.1.6.8	Move Out Date After Mass Transition Drop Date
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move out scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If the move out scheduled meter read date is after a Mass Transition drop scheduled meter read date, both processes will run concurrently and both processes will be allowed to complete.  If the submitting CR is not scheduled to be the CR of Record on the scheduled meter read date of the move out, ERCOT cancels the move out.
15.1.6.9	Multiple Switches
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all switch scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If there is another switch with a scheduled meter read date after or prior to the switch scheduled meter read date, both processes will run concurrently and both processes will be allowed to complete.  If there is another switch with a scheduled meter read date equal to the switch scheduled meter read date and neither have a “cancel pending” status, ERCOT will cancel the second switch received based on receipt date/time of the initiating transaction.  If one of the switches has a “cancel pending” status, it will be cancelled by ERCOT and the other one will be allowed to complete.
15.1.6.10	Multiple Move Ins
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move in scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If there is another move in with a scheduled meter read date after or prior to the move in scheduled meter read date, both processes will run concurrently and both processes will be allowed to complete.  If there is another move in with a scheduled meter read date equal to the move in scheduled meter read date and neither have a “cancel pending” status ERCOT will cancel the second move in received based on receipt date/time of the initiating transaction.  If one of the move ins has a “cancel pending” status it will be cancelled by ERCOT and the other one will be allowed to complete.
15.1.6.11	Multiple Move Outs
(1)	ERCOT performs evaluations two Retail Business Days prior to all move out scheduled meter read dates or upon the receipt of the TDSP response, whichever is later.  If there is another move out with a scheduled meter read date after or prior to the move out scheduled meter read date, both processes will run concurrently and both processes will be allowed to complete.  If the submitting CR is not scheduled to be the CR of Record on the scheduled meter read date of the move out, ERCOT cancels the move out.  If there is another move out with a scheduled meter read date equal to the move out scheduled meter read date and neither have a “cancel pending” status, ERCOT will cancel the second move out received based on receipt date/time of the initiating transaction.  If one of the move outs has a “cancel pending” status, it will be cancelled by ERCOT and the other one will be allowed to complete.
15.1.7	Move In or Move Out Date Change
(1)	The CR will send a date change transaction using the 814_12, Date Change Request.  ERCOT will accept date changes on or before the day preceding the scheduled move in or move out.  ERCOT will reject any 814_12 transaction received on the scheduled move in or move out date, as well as date change requests on orders that were scheduled in the past.
(2)	If the date change does not pass validation, ERCOT will reply to the CR with a rejection of the date change transaction using the 814_13, Date Change Response, within two Retail Business Hours of receipt of the 814_12 transaction with the exception of a date change that is invalid because of “Item or Service Not Established.”  In the case of “Item or Service Not Established,” ERCOT will hold the date change request and continue to retry the request at regular intervals for 48 hours counting only hours on Retail Business Days, but not only Business Hours.
(3)	If the date change is accepted, ERCOT will notify the TDSP using the 814_12 transaction within two Retail Business Hours of receipt of the 814_12 transaction from the CR.  The TDSP will respond within two Retail Business Days using the 814_13 transaction.  If the TDSP accepts the date change, the submitting CR is notified via the 814_13 transaction and the other CR is notified via the 814_12 transaction.  ERCOT will only send the 814_12 transaction to the Losing CR on a move in if ERCOT has already sent the 814_06, Loss Notification, to the Losing CR.  ERCOT will only send the 814_12 transaction to the Gaining CR on a move out to CSA if ERCOT has already sent the 814_22, CSA CR Move In Request, to the CSA CR.
15.1.8	Cancellation of Registration Transactions
(1)	The CR will send a cancellation notice using the 814_08, Cancel Request.  ERCOT will accept cancellations on or before the day preceding the move in, move out or switch scheduled date.  ERCOT will reject any 814_08 transaction received on the scheduled move in, move out or switch date, as well as cancellation requests on orders that were scheduled in the past.
(2)	If the cancellation does not pass validation, ERCOT will reply to the CR within two Retail Business Hours with a rejection of the cancellation notice using the 814_09, Cancel Response, with the exception of a cancellation that is invalid because of “Item or Service Not Established.”  In the case of “Item or Service Not Established,” ERCOT will hold the cancellation request and continue to retry the request at regular intervals for 48 hours counting only hours on Retail Business Days, but not only Business Hours.
(3)	If the cancellation notice is accepted, ERCOT will set the status to “cancel pending” status and notify the TDSP within two Retail Business Hours using the 814_08 transaction.  If the TDSP accepts the cancel, ERCOT will cancel the transaction and notify the submitting CR using the 814_09 transaction.  When ERCOT has sent the current CR an 814_06, Loss Notification, the current CR will be sent an 814_08 transaction.  On a move out to CSA, if ERCOT has sent the 814_22, CSA CR Move In Request, to the CSA CR, the CSA CR will be sent an 814_08 transaction.  If the TDSP rejects the cancel, ERCOT will reset the status to “in review,” “permit pending,” or “scheduled” as appropriate, and forward the reject to the CR.  The TDSP will respond within one Retail Business Day using the 814_09 transaction.
15.1.9	Continuous Service Agreement CR Processing
(1)	This Section sets forth the processes to initiate or terminate a CSA.
15.1.9.1	Request to Initiate Continuous Service Agreement in an Investor Owned Utility Service Territory or in a Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Service Territory as Indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, Municipally Owned Utility and/or Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Market
(1)	When a CR establishes a CSA at an ESI ID, the CR will send an 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request, to ERCOT.  ERCOT will determine if the ESI ID has a CSA on record.  If there is not a current CSA, ERCOT will respond to the new CSA CR using the 814_19, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Response, within one Retail Business Day of receipt of the 814_18 transaction.  ERCOT will hold the CSA in a pending status until the start date of the CSA.
(2)	If there is a current CSA, ERCOT will respond to the new CSA CR using the 814_19 transaction within one Retail Business Day of receipt of the 814_18 transaction.  ERCOT will hold the CSA in a pending status until the start date of the CSA and on the start date of the new CSA, ERCOT will send notice of CSA termination using the 814_18 transaction to the current CSA, within one Retail Business Day.
(3)	If a CSA CR wishes to establish CSAs with multiple ESI IDs, the CSA CR must submit an 814_18 transaction for each ESI ID.
15.1.9.2	Request to Change Continuous Service Agreement End Date
(1)	The CSA CR will send an 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request, to ERCOT on an ESI ID where the CSA CR is the active CSA CR of Record.  ERCOT will update the pending end date for the active CSA and respond to the CR using the 814_19, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Response, within one Retail Business Day of receipt of the 814_18 transaction.
15.1.9.3	Request to Terminate Continuous Service Agreement
(1)	The CSA CR will send an 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request, to ERCOT.  ERCOT will respond to the CR using the 814_19, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Response, within one Retail Business Day of receipt of the 814_18 transaction.
(2)	If the CSA CR wishes to terminate CSAs with multiple ESI IDs, the CR must submit an 814_18 transaction for each ESI ID.
15.1.9.4	Notice to Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer of Enrollment Due to a Move Out
(1)	If, during the processing of a Move-Out Request, ERCOT determines that a CSA CR exists and has an end date after the requested date for the move out, ERCOT will notify the CSA CR of the move out (refer to Section 15.1.5, Service Termination (Move Out)) using the 814_22, CSA CR Move In Request, within two Retail Business Days of the scheduled meter read date, but not before the receipt of the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response.  This request will contain all of the information necessary for the CSA CR to begin servicing the ESI ID, including the move out date.
(2)	If the CSA CR requires historical usage information for the ESI ID, the CSA CR will submit a request using the 814_26, Historical Usage Request, after receipt of the 867_04, Initial Meter Read.
15.1.9.5	Notice to Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer of Drop Due to a Move In
(1)	An evaluation is done on the CSA CR two Retail Business Days prior to the scheduled meter read date, but not before receipt of the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response.  If ERCOT determines that there is a CSA CR or there is scheduled to be a CSA CR on the scheduled meter read date, ERCOT will submit to the CSA CR a notification using the 814_06, Loss Notification.  
(2)	If ERCOT has submitted a notification using the 814_06 transaction to the CSA CR and then the TDSP sends the 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required, to ERCOT, ERCOT will notify the CSA CR by submitting the 814_28 transaction.  The CSA CR will remain the CR of Record.
15.1.10	Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer Processing in Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Service Territory
(1)	This Section sets forth the processes to initiate or terminate a CSA in an MOU or EC service territory, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, Municipally Owned Utility and/or Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Market.
15.1.10.1	Request to Initiate Continuous Service Agreement
(1)	When a CR establishes a CSA at an ESI ID, the CR will send an 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request, to ERCOT.  This will be forwarded to the MOU/EC TDSP within one Retail Business Day.  ERCOT will send the 814_18 transaction, and if an 814_19, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Response, is not received from the MOU/EC TDSP within ten Business Days, ERCOT will cancel the CSA request and send an 814_08, Cancel Request, to the requesting CSA CR and MOU/EC TDSP.  Additional 814_18 transactions received on the ESI ID while the first 814_18 transaction is still pending will be rejected at ERCOT.  Upon receipt of the 814_19 transaction (accept) from the MOU/EC TDSP, ERCOT will send an 814_19 transaction to the new CSA CR within one Retail Business Day.  ERCOT will hold the CSA in a pending status until the start date of the CSA.
(2)	If an 814_18 transaction is received on an ESI ID with an existing CSA relationship, ERCOT will forward the 814_18 transaction to the MOU/EC TDSP within one Retail Business Day, and upon receipt of the 814_19 transaction (accept) from the MOU/EC TDSP, will send an 814_19 transaction to the new CSA CR within one Retail Business Day of receipt of the 814_19 transaction from the MOU/EC TDSP.  ERCOT will hold the CSA in a pending status until the start date of the CSA.  On the start date of the new CSA, ERCOT will send notice of the CSA termination using the 814_18 transaction to the current CSA within one Retail Business Day.
(3)	If a CSA CR wishes to establish CSAs with multiple ESI IDs, the CSA CR must submit an 814_18 transaction for each ESI ID.
15.1.10.2	Request to Change Continuous Service Agreement End Date
(1)	The CSA CR will send an 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request, to ERCOT on an ESI ID where the CSA CR is the active CSA CR of Record.  Upon receipt of an 814_18 transaction, ERCOT will update the pending end date for the active CSA, send an 814_19, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Response, within one Retail Business Day to the CSA CR, and forward the 814_18 transaction to the TDSP within one Retail Business Day.
15.1.10.3	Request to Terminate Continuous Service Agreement 
(1)	The CSA CR will send an 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request, to ERCOT.  Upon receipt of an 814_18 transaction, ERCOT will terminate the CSA relationship, send an 814_19, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Response, within one Retail Business Day to the CSA CR, and forward the 814_18 transaction to the TDSP within one Retail Business Day.  An 814_18 transaction received while an 814_18 Establish transaction is pending will delete the current CSA relationship at ERCOT, provided the CSA CR of the 814_18 transaction and the current active CSA CR is the same.
(2)	If CSA CR wishes to terminate CSAs with multiple ESI IDs, the CSA CR must submit an 814_18 transaction for each ESI ID.
15.1.10.4	Notice to Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer of Enrollment Due to a Move Out
(1)	If, during the processing of a Move-Out Request, ERCOT determines that a CSA CR exists for the ESI ID, ERCOT will notify the CSA CR of the move out (refer to Section 15.1.5, Service Termination (Move Out)) using the 814_22, CSA CR Move In Request, within two Retail Business Days of the scheduled meter read date, but not before the receipt of the MOU/EC TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response.  This request will contain all of the information necessary for the CSA CR to begin servicing the ESI ID including the move out date.  
(2)	If the CSA CR requires historical usage information for the ESI ID, the CSA CR will submit a request using the 814_26, Historical Usage Request, after receipt of the 867_04, Initial Meter Read.
15.1.10.5	Notice to Continuous Service Agreement Competitive Retailer of Drop Due to a Move In
(1)	An evaluation is done on the CSA CR two Retail Business Days prior to the scheduled meter read date, but not before receipt of the MOU/EC TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response.  If ERCOT determines that there is a CSA CR or there is scheduled to be a CSA CR on the scheduled meter read date, ERCOT will submit to the CSA CR a notification using the 814_06, Loss Notification.  
(2)	If ERCOT has submitted a notification using the 814_06 transaction to the CSA CR and then the TDSP sends the 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required, to ERCOT, ERCOT will notify the CSA CR by forwarding the 814_28 transaction.  The CSA CR will remain the CR of Record.
15.2	Database Queries
 (1)	Market Participants may obtain information from ERCOT to determine or to verify the Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) for a Service Delivery Point.  The following information can be obtained through a database query, an extract, or an Application Programming Interface (API) on the ERCOT website:
(a)	Service Address;
(b)	Meter read code;
(c)	ESI ID;
(d)	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP);
(e)	Premise type;
(f)	Current status (active/de-energized/inactive) with effective date;
(g)	Move in/move out pending flag with associated date, if applicable;
(h)	Power region;
(i)	Station ID; 
(j)	Metered/unmetered flag;
(k)	ESI ID dates that include:
(i)	Eligibility date; 
(ii)	Start date; 
(iii)	Create date; and 
(iv)	Retire date;
(l)	Provider of Last Resort (POLR) Customer class as defined in subsection (c) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.43, Provider of Last Resort (POLR); 
(m)	Settlement Advanced Metering System (AMS) meter or Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) / Electric Cooperative (EC) Non-BUSIDRRQ Interval Data Recorder (IDR) indicator that provides a true/false value as determined by ERCOT’s system evaluation of the current Load Profile ID assignment of an ESI ID; 
(n)	TDSP AMS indicator that is assigned by the TDSP to denote the following:
(i)	AMSR – an AMS meter or MOU/EC Non-BUSIDRRQ IDR with remote connect and disconnect capability; 
(ii)	AMSM – an AMS meter or MOU/EC Non-BUSIDRRQ IDR without remote connect and disconnect capability; or 
(iii)	Null – neither an AMS meter type nor an MOU/EC Non-BUSIDRRQ IDR exists at this Premise; and 
(o)	Switch hold indicator;
(p)	County; and
(q)	Metered service type.
(2) 	At least daily, ERCOT will provide all of the attributes listed above when an 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request, is received and accepted by ERCOT that creates an ESI ID, or makes changes to the switch hold or the provisioned AMS meter indicator of an ESI ID.
15.2.1	Find ESI ID Function on the Market Information System 
(1)	Market Participants with an ERCOT digital certificate can obtain information to verify the Service Address for a Service Delivery Point using the Find ESI ID function on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area.  The Find ESI ID function returns the information as identified in Section 15.2, Database Queries.
15.2.2	Find Transaction Function on the Market Information System 
(1)	Competitive Retailers (CRs) or TDSPs with an ERCOT digital certificate may obtain transaction information from ERCOT to review business processes (i.e. Switch Request, Move-In Request, etc.) on ESI IDs.  The Find Transaction function provides both summary and detailed transaction information for an ESI ID.  The data displayed is confidential information and therefore is restricted by digital certificate.  Access to the ESI ID information displayed is limited based on transaction receiver/sender, TDSP ownership, or the Retail Electric Provider (REP) of Record for each ESI ID.  MIS help screens provide detailed descriptions of the field contents and related screens.  
15.2.3	Electric Service Identifier Extract on the Market Information System 
(1)	ERCOT posts a downloadable extract to the ERCOT website which contains the same information as listed in Section 15.2, Database Queries.  The information provided allows Entities that do not have a digital certificate and are unable to access the information through the Find ESI ID function to use the information to determine or to verify the ESI ID for a Service Delivery Point using the Service Address.  This extract is also used by Entities to incorporate ESI ID information into their database systems.
15.3	Monthly Meter Reads
(1)	Each Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) shall send monthly consumption information for all non-ERCOT-Polled Settlement (EPS) Meter Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) within its service area to ERCOT not later than three Retail Business Days after the scheduled meter read cycle or scheduled meter cycle by day of the month for a point of delivery, using the 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage.  TDSPs shall send monthly consumption information for all ESI IDs associated with EPS-metered facilities to ERCOT no later than three Retail Business Days after TDSP receipt of daily EPS Meter data from ERCOT according to the TDSP scheduled meter read cycle or scheduled meter cycle by day of the month for a point of delivery, using the 867_03 transaction.  ERCOT will forward ERCOT-accepted consumption information to the Competitive Retailer (CR) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number provided in the 867_03 transaction by the TDSP within 12 hours.
(2)	If the meter read for an ESI ID fails the TDSP’s internal validation procedures, the TDSP may, at its discretion, delay sending consumption information for the ESI ID to ERCOT for an additional seven days in order to obtain a valid meter reading.
(3)	If a TDSP is unable to obtain a meter reading for an ESI ID because the TDSP is denied access to the meter, the TDSP may, at its discretion, delay sending consumption information for the ESI ID to ERCOT for an additional seven days in order to obtain a valid meter reading.
(4)	A TDSP, with notification to the market, may suspend the transmission of monthly consumption information during periods of storm restoration or other emergency operations undertaken pursuant to its emergency operations plan.
(5)	For non-ERCOT ESI IDs, TDSPs shall have the option of sending monthly consumption information and effectuating meter reads to ERCOT using the 867_03 transaction.  ERCOT will then forward the monthly consumption and meter read information to the CR DUNS Number provided in the 867_03 transaction by the TDSP within one Retail Business Day.
15.4	Electric Service Identifier
(1)	Each Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) Service Delivery Point shall have a unique number within Texas.  Once this unique number has been created and assigned to a Service Delivery Point, it shall not be re-issued, even in the event of termination of the associated point-of-service.  This unique number shall be referred to as the Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID).
(2)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, in those situations where an ESI ID has been inadvertently placed into inactive status and upon notification from the responsible TDSP, ERCOT shall re-instate the ESI ID for that Service Delivery Point.
15.4.1	Electric Service Identifier Format 
(1)	The ESI ID will have the following format:
10xxxxxyyy..yy
Where:
10	Represents a placeholder for future use;
xxxxx	Is the five-digit Department of Energy identification code for the assigning TDSP; and
yyy..yy	Is up to 29 alphanumeric characters assigned by the TDSP.
(2)	Allowable alphanumeric characters are 0-9 and A-Z.  The total length of the ESI ID cannot exceed 36 alphanumeric characters.
(3)	It is the TDSP’s responsibility to create, assign, maintain and retire, as necessary, an ESI ID to each Service Delivery Point in its service area.
15.4.1.1	Assignment of ESI IDs to Unmetered Service Delivery Points
(1)	In general, each unmetered Service Delivery Point will be assigned an ESI ID corresponding to the point of delivery from the TDSP system to the Customer or Load.  The TDSP may, however, aggregate unmetered Service Delivery Points into one ESI ID provided they meet all of the following conditions:
(a)	The Service Delivery Points are owned by the same Customer and are located at the same physical location (an exception is allowed for governmental unmetered loads such as street lighting and traffic signals);
(b)	All Service Delivery Points have the same Usage Profile;
(c)	All Service Delivery Points have the same voltage and are located in the same Unaccounted for Energy (UFE) zone and same Load Zone; and
(d)	The TDSP’s tariffs allow aggregation of unmetered Service Delivery Points.
15.4.1.2	Assignment of ESI IDs to metered Service Delivery Points
(1)	In general, each metered Service Delivery Point will be assigned an ESI ID corresponding to an existing billing meter.  However, the TDSP may aggregate metered Service Delivery Points into one ESI ID provided they meet all the following conditions:
(a)	The Service Delivery Points are owned by the same Customer and are at the same Service Address;
(b)	All Service Delivery Points have the same Load Profile or all Service Delivery Points have Interval Data Recorders (IDRs);
(c)	All Service Delivery Points have the same voltage and are located in the same UFE zone and same Load Zone; and
(d)	The TDSP’s tariffs allow aggregation of separately metered Service Delivery Points.
(2)	A Customer may request that the TDSP assign separate ESI IDs for separate Service Delivery Points as allowed in the TDSP’s tariffs.
(3)	A TDSP may not assign an ESI ID to submeters where the energy consumption for those meters is included in another ESI ID.  This does not prohibit the TDSP from tracking these submeters internally or charging for submetering services via the Competitive Retailer (CR).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, TDSPs using the practice of subtract metering shall assign an ESI ID to both the master meter and the subtract meter and report adjusted consumption accordingly.
15.4.1.3	Splitting a Service Delivery Point into Multiple ESI IDs
(1)	A Service Delivery Point with Load above one MW may split the actual meter into up to four virtual meters which would each have its own ESI ID.  This process of splitting the meter into separate ESI IDs shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of Section 10, Metering.  Reissuing and reassignment of ESI IDs is prohibited.
15.4.1.4	New Electric Service Identifier Creation
(1)	Since it is anticipated that the ESI ID will be based on the existing TDSP account or Premise numbers (with a prefix identifying the TDSP), the TDSP will assign and submit to the registration database ESI IDs for new Premises as service is extended to them.  TDSPs that opt in after the market startup will be responsible for the creation of ESI IDs for all existing Service Delivery Points in their service territory.
(2)	The TDSP will send ESI ID information using the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request.  ERCOT will verify that this transaction meets Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) specifications.  ERCOT will respond to the TDSP within one Retail Business Hour, with acceptance or rejection of these transactions using the 814_21, ESI ID Maintenance Response.  At least the following data elements are required to be sent in the 814_20 transaction:
(a)	ESI ID;
(b)	Service Address; city, state, zip, county;
(c)	Load Profile Type;
(d)	Meter reading cycle or meter cycle by day of month;
(e)	Station ID;
(f)	Distribution Loss Factor (DLF) code; and
(g)	Premise type.
(3)	The TDSP must receive an accepted 814_21 from ERCOT prior to initiating electric service pursuant to Section 15.1.4, Beginning Service (New Construction Completed and Move Ins).
15.4.1.5	Electric Service Identifier Maintenance
(1)	The TDSP will notify ERCOT of any changes in information related to an ESI ID for which it is responsible.  The TDSP will send changes to ERCOT using the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request.  ERCOT will respond to the TDSP within four Retail Business Hours, using the 814_21, ESI ID Maintenance Response.  In addition, ERCOT will send all affected CRs notice of the changes using the 814_20 transaction.  The TDSP is responsible for the following data elements:
(a)	Service Address; city, state, zip, county;
(b)	Load Profile Type;
(c)	Meter reading cycle or meter cycle by day of month;
(d)	Station ID;
(e)	DLF code;
(f)	Eligibility date;
(g)	Meter type;
(h)	Rate class and sub-class, if applicable;
(i)	Special needs indicator;
(j)	Meter type, identification number, number of dials and role for each meter at the ESI ID, if ESI ID is metered;
(k)	For unmetered ESI IDs, number and description of each unmetered device; 
(l)	Premise type;
(m)	Advanced Metering System (AMS) or Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) / Electric Cooperative (EC) Non-BUSIDRRQ IDR indicator;
(n)	Switch hold indicator; and
(o)	Metered service type description (if provided).
(2)	If the 814_20 transaction is invalid, ERCOT will respond to the TDSP using the 814_21 transaction within four Retail Business Hours of receipt of the 814_20, with the exception of an 814_20 transaction that is invalid because of “ESI ID Invalid or Not Found.”  In the case of “ESI ID Invalid or Not Found,” ERCOT will hold the 814_20 transaction and continue to retry the request at regular intervals for 48 hours counting only hours on Retail Business Days, but not only Business Hours.  If the request remains invalid for 48 hours, the process will terminate and ERCOT will forward an 814_21 transaction.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 16:  Registration and Qualification of Market Participants

April 1, 2025



 
16	REGISTRATION AND QUALIFICATION OF MARKET PARTICIPANTS	16-1
16.1	Registration and Execution of Agreements	16-1
16.1.1	Re-Registration as a Market Participant	16-1
16.1.2	Principal of a Market Participant	16-2
16.1.3	Market Participant Citizenship, Ownership, or Headquarters	16-2
16.1.4	Market Participant Reporting of Critical Electric Grid Equipment and Services-Related Purchases	16-3
16.2	Registration and Qualification of Qualified Scheduling Entities	16-5
16.2.1	Criteria for Qualification as a Qualified Scheduling Entity	16-5
16.2.1.1	QSE Background Check Process	16-8
16.2.1.2	Data Agent-Only Qualified Scheduling Entities	16-9
16.2.2	QSE Application Process	16-10
16.2.2.1	Notice of Receipt of Qualified Scheduling Entity Application	16-10
16.2.2.2	Incomplete QSE Applications	16-11
16.2.2.3	ERCOT Approval or Rejection of Qualified Scheduling Entity Application	16-11
16.2.3	Remaining Steps for Qualified Scheduling Entity Registration	16-12
16.2.3.1	Process to Gain Approval to Follow DSR Load	16-13
16.2.3.2	Maintaining and Updating QSE Information	16-13
16.2.3.3	Qualified Scheduling Entity Service Termination	16-13
16.2.4	Posting of Qualified Scheduling Entity List	16-14
16.2.5	Suspended or Terminated Qualified Scheduling Entity – Notification to LSEs and Resource Entities Represented	16-14
16.2.6	Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity	16-15
16.2.6.1	Designation as an Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity or Virtual Qualified Scheduling Entity	16-15
16.2.6.2	Market Participation by an Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity or a Virtual Qualified Scheduling Entity	16-16
16.2.6.3	Requirement to Obtain New Qualified Scheduling Entity or Qualified Scheduling Entity Qualification	16-16
16.2.7	Acceleration	16-17
16.3	Registration of Load Serving Entities	16-17
16.3.1	Technical and Managerial Requirements for LSE Applicants	16-18
16.3.1.1	Designation of a Qualified Scheduling Entity	16-18
16.3.2	Registration Process for Load Serving Entities	16-19
16.3.2.1	Notice of Receipt of Load Serving Entity Application	16-19
16.3.2.2	Incomplete Load Serving Entity Applications	16-19
16.3.2.3	ERCOT Approval or Rejection of Load Serving Entity Application	16-19
16.3.3 	Changing QSE Designation	16-20
16.3.4	Maintaining and Updating LSE Information	16-20
16.4	Registration of Transmission and Distribution Service Providers	16-21
16.5	Registration of a Resource Entity	16-21
16.5.1	Technical and Managerial Requirements for Resource Entity Applicants	16-24
16.5.1.1	Designation of a Qualified Scheduling Entity	16-25
16.5.1.2	Waiver for Federal Hydroelectric Facilities	16-25
16.5.1.3	Waiver for Block Load Transfer Resources	16-26
16.5.2	Registration Process for a Resource Entity	16-26
16.5.2.1	Notice of Receipt of Resource Entity Application	16-27
16.5.2.2	Incomplete Resource Entity Applications	16-27
16.5.3	Changing QSE Designation	16-28
16.5.4	Maintaining and Updating Resource Entity Information	16-29
16.6	Registration of Municipally Owned Utilities and Electric Cooperatives in the ERCOT Region	16-29
16.7	Registration of Renewable Energy Credit Account Holders	16-30
16.8	Registration and Qualification of Congestion Revenue Rights Account Holders	16-30
16.8.1	Criteria for Qualification as a CRR Account Holder	16-30
16.8.2	CRR Account Holder Application Process	16-33
16.8.2.1	Notice of Receipt of CRR Account Holder Application	16-33
16.8.2.2	Incomplete CRR Account Holder Applications	16-33
16.8.2.3	ERCOT Approval or Rejection of CRR Account Holder Application	16-34
16.8.3	Remaining Steps for CRR Account Holder Registration	16-35
16.8.3.1	Maintaining and Updating CRR Account Holder Information	16-35
16.9	Resources Providing Reliability Must-Run Service	16-35
16.10	Resources Providing Black Start Service	16-35
16.11	Financial Security for Counter-Parties	16-36
16.11.1	ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements for Counter-Parties	16-36
16.11.1.1	Review of Counter-Party Eligibility	16-36
16.11.1.1.1	Failure to Maintain Eligibility	16-37
16.11.2	[RESERVED]	16-37
16.11.3	Alternative Means of Satisfying ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements	16-37
16.11.4	Determination and Monitoring of Counter-Party Credit Exposure	16-40
16.11.4.1	Determination of Total Potential Exposure for a Counter-Party	16-40
16.11.4.2	Determination of Counter-Party Initial Estimated Liability	16-46
16.11.4.3	Determination of Counter-Party Estimated Aggregate Liability	16-48
16.11.4.3.1	Day-Ahead Liability Estimate	16-54
16.11.4.3.2	Real-Time Liability Estimate	16-55
16.11.4.3.3	Forward Adjustment Factors	16-56
16.11.4.4	[RESERVED]	16-58
16.11.4.5	Determination of the Counter-Party Future Credit Exposure	16-58
16.11.4.6	Determination of Counter-Party Available Credit Limits	16-61
16.11.4.6.1	Credit Requirements for CRR Auction Participation	16-62
16.11.4.6.2	Credit Requirements for DAM Participation	16-63
16.11.4.7	Credit Monitoring and Management Reports	16-63
16.11.5	Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Creditworthiness and Credit Exposure by ERCOT	16-64
16.11.6	Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants	16-67
16.11.6.1	ERCOT’s Remedies	16-68
16.11.6.1.1	No Payments by ERCOT to Market Participant	16-68
16.11.6.1.2	ERCOT May Draw On, Hold or Distribute Funds	16-69
16.11.6.1.3	Aggregate Amount Owed by Breaching Market Participant Immediately Due	16-69
16.11.6.1.4	Repossession of CRRs by ERCOT	16-69
16.11.6.1.5	Declaration of Forfeit of CRRs	16-70
16.11.6.1.6	Liquidation of Repossessed or Forfeited CRRs	16-71
16.11.6.1.6	Revocation of a Market Participant’s Rights and Termination of Agreements	16-73
16.11.6.2	ERCOT’s Remedies for Late Payments by a Market Participant	16-73
16.11.6.2.1	First Late Payment in Any Rolling 12-Month Period	16-74
16.11.6.2.2	Second Late Payment in Any Rolling 12-Month Period	16-74
16.11.6.2.3	Third Late Payment in Any Rolling 12-Month Period	16-74
16.11.6.2.4	Fourth Late Payment in Any Rolling 12-Month Period	16-74
16.11.6.2.5	Level I Enforcement	16-75
16.11.6.2.6	Level II Enforcement	16-75
16.11.6.2.7	Level III Enforcement	16-75
16.11.7	Release of Market Participant’s Financial Security Requirement	16-76
16.11.8	Acceleration	16-77
16.12	User Security Administrator and Digital Certificates	16-77
16.12.1	USA Responsibilities and Qualifications for Digital Certificate Holders	16-79
16.12.2	Requirements for Use of Digital Certificates	16-80
16.12.3	Market Participant Audits of User Security Administrators and Digital Certificates	16-81
16.13	Registration of Emergency Response Service Resources	16-83
16.14	Termination of Access Privileges to Restricted Computer Systems and Control Systems	16-83
16.15	Registration of Independent Market Information System Registered Entity	16-84
16.16	Additional Counter-Party Qualification Requirements	16-85
16.16.1	Counter-Party Criteria	16-85
16.16.2	Annual Certification	16-86
16.16.3	Verification of Risk Management Framework	16-87
16.17	Exemption for Qualified Scheduling Entities Participating Only in Emergency Response Service	16-89
16.18	Registration of a Direct Current Tie Operator	16-90
16.18	Cybersecurity Incident Notification	16-91
16.19	Designation of Transmission Operators	16-92
16.19	Designation of Transmission Operators	16-93
 
REGISTRATION AND QUALIFICATION OF MARKET PARTICIPANTS 
16.1	Registration and Execution of Agreements
(1)	ERCOT shall require each Market Participant to register and execute the Standard Form Market Participant Agreement and, as applicable, Standard Form Reliability Must-Run Agreement, and Standard Form Black Start Agreement.
(2)	A Standard Form Market Participant Agreement is in Section 22, Attachments, and ERCOT shall also post this agreement on the ERCOT website.
(3)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website all registration procedures and applications necessary to complete registration for any function described in these Protocols.  As part of its registration procedures, ERCOT may require one or more of the following:
(a)	Reasonable tests of the ability of a Market Participant to communicate with ERCOT or perform as required under these Protocols;
(b)	An application fee as determined by the ERCOT Board; 
(c)	Related agreements for specific purposes (such as agency designation, meter splitting, or network interconnection) that apply only to some Market Participants;
(d)	A representation to ERCOT that no officer, owner, partner or other equity interest owner of the Entity was CEO or President or collectively held more than a 10% equity interest in (as owner, partner or other equity interest owner) another Entity at the time of a default where the default resulted in amounts owed to ERCOT remaining unpaid on any Agreement with ERCOT; and
(e)	An attestation regarding citizenship, ownership, or headquarters of the Entity seeking to register as a Market Participant.
(4)	A Market Participant shall subscribe to any public distribution lists for Market Notices that are relevant to the Market Participant’s operations or obligations.
16.1.1	Re-Registration as a Market Participant
(1)	Any Market Participant that has had one of the following occur must provide to ERCOT a new DUNS Number (DUNS #) to re-register as a Market Participant with ERCOT:
(a)	Its Agreement with ERCOT terminated;
(b)	Its Customers dropped to the Provider(s) of Last Resort (POLR(s)) pursuant to Section 15.1.3, Transition Process; or
(c)	Its Customers dropped to a Gaining Competitive Retailer (CR) pursuant to Section 15.1.3.
16.1.2	Principal of a Market Participant 
(1)	For purposes of Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, a Principal is any of the following, as related to a registered Market Participant or Market Participant applicant:
(a)	A sole proprietor of a sole proprietorship;
(b)	A general partner of a general partnership;
(c)	An executive of a company (e.g., president, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer, general counsel, or equivalent position);
(d)	A manager, managing member, or a member vested with the management authority of a limited liability company or limited liability partnership;
(e)	A shareholder with more than 10% equity of the Entity; or
(f)	A person that has authority to make decisions under these Protocols on behalf of the registered Market Participant or applicant, and is not otherwise controlled by any of the other Principal types listed above, or as otherwise identified by ERCOT.
16.1.3	Market Participant Citizenship, Ownership, or Headquarters
(1)	An Entity is not eligible to register or maintain its registration with ERCOT as a Market Participant if the Entity:
(a)	Is a person who is a citizen of a Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Designated Country; or   
(b)	Is an LSIPA Designated Company.  
(2)	If an Entity meets any of the above listed criteria solely due to the citizenship, ownership or headquarters of a wholly owned subsidiary, majority-owned subsidiary, or Affiliate, the Entity will be eligible to register as a Market Participant, subject to paragraph (5) below, if it certifies that the subsidiary or Affiliate at issue will not have direct or remote access to or control of ERCOT’s Wide Area Network (WAN), Market Information System (MIS), or any data from such ERCOT systems. 
(3)	Any Entity that seeks to register as a Market Participant shall submit an attestation as reflected in Section 23, Form Q, Attestation Regarding Market Participant Citizenship, Ownership, or Headquarters, certifying that the Entity complies with the above criteria, to the best of the Entity’s knowledge and belief following reasonable diligence.
(4)	If there are changes to a Market Participant’s citizenship, ownership, or headquarters such that the Market Participant meets any of the prohibited company citizenship, ownership (including Affiliations) or headquarters criteria of an LSIPA Designated Company, then the Market Participant shall execute and submit a new attestation to ERCOT within ten Business Days of the change becoming effective.
(5)	ERCOT may immediately suspend or terminate a Market Participant’s registration or access to any of ERCOT’s systems if ERCOT has a reasonable suspicion that the Entity meets any of the criteria described by paragraph (1) above or that an Entity has provided access or control to a subsidiary or Affiliate as described by paragraph (2) above.
16.1.4	Market Participant Reporting of Critical Electric Grid Equipment and Services-Related Purchases
(1)	As a condition of registering and maintaining registration with ERCOT as a Market Participant, an Entity shall report to ERCOT the purchase, lease, or receipt (referred to in this Section as a “purchase”) of any Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE) or Critical Electric Grid Services (CEGS) that the Entity knows to be from an LSIPA Designated Company or an LSIPA Designated Country.  This includes, but is not limited to, a purchase of CEGE or CEGS that were manufactured, produced, created, or otherwise provided by a company known to the Entity to be an LSIPA Designated Company and subsequently sold to the Entity by a non-LSIPA Designated Company.  
(a)	As used in this Section 16.1.4 and Section 23, Form S, Reporting and Attestation Regarding Purchase of Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE) and Critical Electric Grid Services (CEGS) from a Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Designated Company or LSIPA Designated Country, the terms “knows,” “known,” and “knowledge” refer to the Entity’s actual knowledge or knowledge that the Entity could have obtained through reasonable inquiry with respect to any clearly evident, non-obscure information indicating that the equipment or service was manufactured, produced, created, or otherwise provided by an LSIPA Designated Company.   
(b)	If the Entity obtains a contractual representation (or either a letter of attestation or a contractual representation if the purchase was made before June 8, 2023) from the seller of CEGE or CEGS that the equipment or services were not manufactured, produced, created, or otherwise provided by an LSIPA Designated Company, then absent some clearly evident, non-obscure information raising such suspicion, this Section 16.1.4 does not require the Entity to conduct diligence or otherwise inquire as to the identity or location of the manufacturer, producer, or creator of the CEGE or CEGS that the Entity purchases or any component parts thereof.  For the avoidance of doubt, this subsection does not create or suggest a requirement not otherwise imposed by this Section 16.1.4.
(c)	If a Market Participant or an Entity applying for registration purchases CEGE from a non-LSIPA Designated Company and clearly evident, non-obscure information indicates that such equipment has a part or component (which itself has routable connectivity) that originated from an LSIPA Designated Company or LSIPA Designated Country, then such part or component shall be reported using Section 23, Form S, but in Subsections 2(a)-(b) of Section 23, Form S, the Entity or Market Participant is only required to provide the following information for the part or component: 
(i)	A general description of the part or component; 
(ii)	The name of the LSIPA Designated Country from which the part or component originated; and 
(iii)	The name of the LSIPA Designated Company from which the part or component originated, unless the Market Participant or Entity applying for registration does not actually know the name of the LSIPA Designated Company.  
(d)	For each reported purchase made after June 8, 2023, the Market Participant or Entity applying for registration shall attest that the purchase will not result in access to or control of CEGE by an LSIPA Designated Company or an LSIPA Designated Country, excluding access specifically allowed by the Market Participant or Entity applying for registration for product warranty and support purposes. 
(e)	For any purchases made before June 8, 2023, the Market Participant or Entity applying for registration shall take reasonable and necessary actions to mitigate access to or control of its CEGE by a company known to the Entity to be an LSIPA Designated Company or an LSIPA Designated Country, excluding access specifically allowed by the Market Participant or Entity applying for registration for product warranty and support purposes, and shall report those actions to ERCOT on the form reflected in Section 23, Form S. 
(2)	Market Participants and Entities applying for registration with ERCOT shall submit an initial report and attestation, on the form reflected in Section 23, Form S identifying any purchase described in paragraph (1) above that occurred during the following time periods:
(a)	For a Market Participant, purchase(s) that were made after June 18, 2021.  This initial report and attestation shall be submitted by October 28, 2024; 
(b)	For a Market Participant, purchase(s) that were made between June 8, 2018 through June 18, 2021.  This initial report and attestation shall be submitted by December 15, 2024; and
(c)	For an Entity applying for registration with ERCOT, purchase(s) that were made within the five years preceding the date on which the Entity signed the Standard Form Agreement.  This initial report and attestation must be submitted before ERCOT may approve registration.
(3)	A Market Participant shall submit a report and attestation, on the form reflected in Section 23, Form S, identifying any purchase(s) described in paragraph (1) above that occur after the date(s) of the purchases reported pursuant to paragraph (2) above and that have not already been reported pursuant to this Section. 
(4)	Reports and attestations submitted pursuant to paragraph (3) above shall be submitted within 180 days of the date of the  purchase. 
16.2	Registration and Qualification of Qualified Scheduling Entities
16.2.1	Criteria for Qualification as a Qualified Scheduling Entity 
(1)	To become and remain a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), an Entity must meet the following requirements:
(a)	Submit a properly completed QSE application for qualification, including any applicable fee, necessary disclosures, and designation of Authorized Representatives, each of whom is responsible for administrative communications with the QSE and each of whom has enough authority to commit and bind the QSE and the Entities it represents;
(b)	Comply with ERCOT’s background check process, as described in Section 16.2.1.1, QSE Background Check Process;
(c)	Demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the Entity does not pose an “Unreasonable Financial Risk”, as defined in this Section;
(d)	Sign a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement; 
(e)	Sign any required Agreements relating to use of the ERCOT Wide Area Network (WAN), software, and systems;
(f)	Demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the Entity is capable of performing the functions of a QSE; 
(g)	Demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the Entity is capable of complying with the requirements of all ERCOT Protocols and Operating Guides; 
(h)	Satisfy ERCOT’s creditworthiness requirements as set forth in this Section, unless exempted from these requirements by Section 16.17, Exemption for Qualified Scheduling Entities Participating Only in Emergency Response Service;
(i)	Be generally able to pay its debts as they come due.  ERCOT may request evidence of compliance with this qualification only if ERCOT reasonably believes that a QSE is failing to comply with it;
(j)	Provide all necessary bank account information and arrange for Fedwire system transfers for two-way confirmation; 
(k)	Be financially responsible for payment of Settlement charges for those Entities it represents under these Protocols;
(l)	Submit an executed ERCOT Private Wide Area Network (WAN) Agreement under Section 23, Form K, Wide Area Network (WAN) Agreement, for WAN Participants; 
(m)	Comply with the backup plan requirements for WAN Participants, if applicable, in accordance with the Operating Guides; 
(n)	Demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the Entity can maintain a 24-hour, seven-day-per-week control or operations center with qualified personnel for the purposes of communicating with ERCOT relating to Day-Ahead and Operating Day exchange of market and operational obligations.  This requirement applies to QSEs that are WAN Participants.  Control or operations center personnel must be responsible for operational communications and must have sufficient authority to commit and bind the QSE and the Entities that it represents;
(o)	Demonstrate and maintain a working functional interface with all required ERCOT computer systems;
(p)	Allow ERCOT, upon reasonable notice, to conduct a site visit to verify information provided by the QSE; and
(q)	If a QSE represents a Resource Entity, Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resource, or another QSE and receives or transmits WAN Data, it must maintain connection to a Secure Private Network (SPN) or equivalent network as described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 7.1.2, WAN Participant Responsibilities.  
(2)	If a QSE chooses to use Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) transactions to receive Settlement Statements and Invoices, it must participate in and successfully complete testing as described in Section 19.8, Retail Market Testing, before starting operations with ERCOT as a QSE.
(3)	A QSE must be able to demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that it does not pose an Unreasonable Financial Risk.  Unreasonable Financial Risk as used in Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, is a risk of financial default posed to ERCOT or its Market Participants by participation of an Entity or its Principals in the ERCOT market.  Indicators of Unreasonable Financial Risk may include, but are not limited to: past market manipulation, trading violations, or other finance-related violations based upon a final adjudication in state or federal regulatory or legal proceedings; financial defaults in ERCOT or other energy markets resulting in losses or uplifts; indications of imminent bankruptcy or insolvency, or other past civil judgement or criminal conviction that reflects problematic behavior on the part of the Entity or its Principals.
(4)	A QSE or QSE applicant must be able to demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that none of its Principals were or are Principals of any Entity with an outstanding payment obligation that remains owing to ERCOT under any Agreement or these Protocols.  For purposes of this Section, ERCOT will only consider disqualifying those Principals of the QSE or QSE applicant who were Principals of the other Entity at a time during which the unpaid financial obligation remained owing to ERCOT or during the 120-day period prior to the date on which the unpaid financial obligation first became due and owing to ERCOT.
(5)	If any of a QSE’s or QSE applicant’s Principals were or are Principals of a terminated Market Participant with an obligation for Default Uplift Ratio Share allocated under Section 9.19.1, Default Uplift Invoices, the terminated Market Participant must be current on all payment obligations for Default Uplift Invoices in order for the QSE to remain, or QSE applicant to become, a registered QSE.  For purposes of this Section, ERCOT will only consider as disqualifying those Principals of the QSE or QSE applicant who were Principals of the other Entity at a time during which the other Entity was not current on its payment obligation for Default Uplift Invoices or 120 days prior to the date the other Entity first failed to pay a Default Uplift Invoice.
(6)	A QSE shall promptly notify ERCOT of any change that a reasonable examiner may deem material to the QSE’s ability to continue to meet the requirements set forth in this Section, and any material change in the information provided by the QSE to ERCOT that may adversely affect the reliability or safety of the ERCOT System or the financial security of ERCOT.  This includes any changes in the Principals of the QSE.  If the QSE fails to so notify ERCOT of such change within two Business Days after becoming aware of the change, then ERCOT may, after providing notice to each Entity represented by the QSE, refuse to allow the QSE to perform as a QSE and take any other action ERCOT deems appropriate, in its sole discretion, to prevent ERCOT or Market Participants from bearing potential or actual risks, financial or otherwise, arising from those changes, and in accordance with these Protocols.  
(7)	Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, a QSE may partition itself into any number of subordinate QSEs (“Subordinate QSEs”).  If a single Entity requests to partition itself into more than four Subordinate QSEs, ERCOT may implement the request subject to ERCOT’s reasonable determination that the additional requested Subordinate QSEs will not be likely to overburden ERCOT’s staffing or systems.  ERCOT shall adopt an implementation plan allowing phased-in registration for these additional Subordinate QSEs in order to mitigate system or staffing impacts.  However, ERCOT may not unreasonably delay that registration. 
(8)	Each Subordinate QSE must be treated as an individual QSE for all purposes including communications and control functions except for liability, financial security, and financial liability requirements under this Section.  That liability, financial security, and financial liability is cumulative for all Subordinate QSEs for the single Entity signing the QSE Agreement.    
(9)	Continued qualification as a QSE is contingent upon compliance with all applicable requirements in these Protocols.  ERCOT may suspend a QSE’s rights as a Market Participant when ERCOT reasonably determines that it is an appropriate remedy for the Entity’s failure to satisfy any applicable requirement.
(10)	Each QSE that is a WAN Participant, or its designated QSE agent, shall maintain 24-hour, seven-day-per-week operations and Hotline communications with ERCOT and answer each QSE Hotline call.
16.2.1.1	QSE Background Check Process
(1)	A QSE applicant must satisfy a background check as a part of the ERCOT registration process.  All background checks will be performed by a third-party acting on ERCOT’s behalf.  Upon ERCOT’s request, a registered QSE may be required to satisfy a background check as a condition of maintaining its ERCOT registration.  
(2)	A QSE, QSE applicants, and their Principals, will provide the following disclosures to complete a QSE background check:
(a)	Any civil or criminal matters involving the applicant, its predecessors, Affiliates, or Principals within the last ten years that resulted in a conviction or finding of fraud, theft, larceny, deceit, deceptive trade practices, or a violation of securities or customer protection laws;
(b)	Any complaint, formal investigation, or disciplinary action concerning financial matters initiated by or with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), a self-regulatory organization, Independent System Operator or Regional Transmission Organization, or a state public utility commission or securities board directly involving the actions of the applicant, its predecessors, Affiliates, or Principals within the last ten years;
(c)	Any default involving the applicant, its predecessors, Affiliates, or Principals, that impacted or revoked the right to operate in any other energy market within the last ten years;
(d)	Any bankruptcy by the applicant, its predecessors, Affiliates, or Principals within the last ten years; and
(e)	Any other information ERCOT deems reasonably necessary to complete a background check (e.g., Social Security Number(s), birth dates, home addresses).  
(3)	As required by paragraph (6) of Section 16.2.1, Criteria for Qualification as a Qualified Scheduling Entity, a QSE, QSE applicants, and their Principals, must promptly provide ERCOT notice of any change that a reasonable examiner could deem material to the QSE’s ability to continue to satisfy the background check requirement, including any change to information that must be disclosed under this Section.
16.2.1.2	Data Agent-Only Qualified Scheduling Entities
(1)	An Entity may request registration as a Data Agent-Only QSE by submitting a completed Data Agent-Only QSE application.  ERCOT will consider the application and register the Entity as a Data Agent-Only QSE in accordance with the same processes in Section 16.2, Registration and Qualification of Qualified Scheduling Entities, generally applicable to the QSE application process.  
(2)	An Entity is eligible to register as a Data Agent-Only QSE and maintain that registration if it:
(a)	Meets all the eligibility criteria to qualify as a QSE under paragraph (1) of Section 16.2.1, Criteria for Qualification as a Qualified Scheduling Entity, except for items (b), (c), (h), (j), (m), and (n);
(b)	Is not also registered as a Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder;
(c)	Does not participate in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or Real-Time Market (RTM);
(d)	Does not participate in the ERS market;
(e)	Does not have decision making authority over the Resources for which the Entity provides agency services; and
(f)	Maintains a 24-hour, seven-day-per-week support contact with qualified personnel to support and resolve any data or communication issues with ERCOT.  
(3)	A registered Data Agent-Only QSE may only be appointed to act as the authorized agent of a QSE that meets all requirements of Section 16.2.1 for the limited purpose of exchanging or communicating certain types of data with ERCOT provided that a QSE Agency Agreement making such appointment has been properly executed by the parties and accepted by ERCOT.  If a Data Agent-Only QSE is appointed as such an agent, it shall perform its agency services in accordance with the terms of the QSE Agency Agreement and the requirements for WAN Participants under the Nodal Operating Guide Section 7, Telemetry and Communication.
(4)	A Data Agent-Only QSE shall comply with the obligations applicable to QSEs under this Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, but is exempt from the following requirements:
(a)	Paragraph (1)(b) of Section 16.2.1;
(b)	Paragraph (1)(c) of Section 16.2.1;
(c)	Paragraph (1)(h) of Section 16.2.1;
(d)	Paragraph (1)(j) of Section 16.2.1;
(e)	Paragraph (1)(m) of Section 16.2.1;
(f)	Paragraph (1)(n) of Section 16.2.1;
(g)	Section 16.11, Financial Security for Counter-Parties; and
(h)	Section 16.16, Additional Counter-Party Qualification Requirements.
(5)	ERCOT will ensure that its systems prevent participation by a Data Agent-Only QSE in the DAM and RTM.
(6)	A Data Agent-Only QSE may request to change its registration to a QSE that meets all the requirements of Section 16.2.1 and is registered with ERCOT as such by submitting a written request to ERCOT.  ERCOT will change the Data Agent-Only QSE’s registration upon satisfaction of all requirements in Section 16.2.1.
(7)	Nothing in this Section affects a Data Agent-Only QSE’s obligation under paragraph (6) of Section 16.2.1 to provide ERCOT notice of any material change that could adversely affect the reliability or safety of the ERCOT System.
(8)	Each Data Agent-Only QSE shall maintain 24-hour, seven-day-per-week operations and Hotline communications with ERCOT and answer each QSE Hotline call.
16.2.2	QSE Application Process  
(1)	To register as a QSE, an applicant must submit to ERCOT a completed Section 23, Form G, QSE Application and Service Filing for Registration Form, and any applicable fee.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the form in which QSE applications must be submitted, all materials that must be provided with the QSE application and the fee schedule, if any, applicable to QSE applications.  The QSE application shall be attested to by a duly authorized officer or agent of the applicant.  The QSE applicant shall promptly notify ERCOT of any material changes affecting a pending application using the appropriate form posted on the ERCOT website.  The application must be submitted at least 60 days before the proposed date of commencement of service.
16.2.2.1	Notice of Receipt of Qualified Scheduling Entity Application
(1)	Within three Business Days after receiving a QSE application, ERCOT shall issue to the applicant a written confirmation that ERCOT has received the QSE application.  ERCOT shall return without review any QSE application that does not include the proper application fee.  The remainder of this Section does not apply to any QSE application returned for failure to include the proper application fee.
16.2.2.2	Incomplete QSE Applications  
(1)	Within ten Business Days after receiving a QSE application, ERCOT shall notify the applicant in writing if the application is incomplete.  An application will not be deemed complete until ERCOT has received all information necessary to conduct an evaluation of whether the applicant satisfies the requirements to be registered as a QSE, including information necessary to complete any background checks. 
(2)	If a QSE application is incomplete, ERCOT’s notice of incompletion to the applicant must explain the deficiencies and describe the additional information necessary to make the QSE application complete.  The QSE applicant has five Business Days after it receives the notice, or a longer period if ERCOT allows, to provide the additional required information. 
(3)	If the applicant does not respond to the incompletion notice within the time allotted, ERCOT shall reject the application and shall notify the applicant using the procedures below. 
(4)	ERCOT will notify the applicant of the date on which the application is deemed complete.
16.2.2.3	ERCOT Approval or Rejection of Qualified Scheduling Entity Application
(1)	ERCOT will approve or reject a QSE application within 60 days after the application has been deemed complete as provided for in Section 16.2.2.2, Incomplete QSE Applications, unless ERCOT determines that additional time is needed to complete its review of the application.  ERCOT will notify the applicant when additional time is needed to complete its review and will provide a date by which ERCOT expects to complete its review.  If ERCOT’s initial evaluation indicates that there may be a basis to reject the application, ERCOT may contact the applicant prior to rendering a final decision on the application to determine if further information can be provided by the applicant to resolve the identified concern.
(2)	If ERCOT rejects a QSE application, ERCOT shall send the applicant a rejection letter explaining the grounds upon which ERCOT rejected the QSE application.  Appropriate grounds for rejecting a QSE application include the following:
(a)	Required information is not provided to ERCOT in the allotted time;
(b)	Noncompliance with technical requirements; and
(c)	Noncompliance with other specific eligibility requirements in this Section or in any other Protocols.
(3)	Not later than ten Business Days after receiving a rejection letter, the QSE applicant may challenge the rejection of its QSE application using the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure.  The applicant may submit a new QSE application and fee at any time, and ERCOT shall process the new QSE application under this Section.
(4)	If ERCOT approves the QSE application, ERCOT shall send the applicant a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement and any other required Agreements relating to use of the ERCOT network, software, and systems for the applicant’s signature.
(5)	If ERCOT fails to approve or deny the QSE application within 60 days after the application is deemed complete, and also fails to notify the applicant that additional time is needed to complete its review, the QSE applicant may seek relief using the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 20.
16.2.3	Remaining Steps for Qualified Scheduling Entity Registration
(1)	After a QSE application is deemed approved under Section 16.2.2.3, ERCOT Approval or Rejection of Qualified Scheduling Entity Application, the applicant shall coordinate or perform the following:
(a)	Return the signed Standard Form Market Participant Agreement and other related agreements to ERCOT;
(b)	Coordinate with ERCOT and other Entities, as necessary, to test all communications necessary to participate in the market in the ERCOT Region;
(c)	If applicable, a QSE offering services in a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) service territory must obtain written authorization from the NOIE, and submit such authorization to ERCOT; and
[PIR005:  ERCOT Protocol Interpretation of paragraph (1)(c) of Section 16.2.3 above:]
On June 29, 2021, ERCOT issued a Protocol Interpretation regarding the applicability of paragraph (1)(c) of Section 16.2.3 to QSEs representing Energy Storage Resources. See Market Notice M-A062921-01, Protocol Interpretation Regarding Necessity of Non-Opt-In Entity Consent to Qualified Scheduling Entity Representation of Energy Storage Resource in Non-Opt-In Entity Service Territory, at http://www.ercot.com/mktrules/nprotocols/pir_process.html for full details of this Protocol Interpretation.
(d)	Demonstrate compliance with security and financial requirements.
16.2.3.1	Process to Gain Approval to Follow DSR Load
(1)	Each QSE wanting to use Resources to follow Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR) Load shall submit a proposal to ERCOT for analysis of the feasibility and reliability of the telemetry required by the proposal.  ERCOT shall either approve or disapprove that proposal based on ERCOT’s ability to monitor the DSR Load behavior.
(2)	Each DSR Load must be associated with a Load meter or group of Load meters.  This includes Load that is calculated by subtracting interchange telemetry from actual generation telemetry, appropriately adjusted for Transmission and Distribution Losses.
[NPRR1000:  Delete Section 16.2.3.1 above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
16.2.3.2	Maintaining and Updating QSE Information 
(1)	Each QSE must timely update information the QSE provided to ERCOT in the application process, and a QSE must promptly respond to any reasonable request by ERCOT for updated information regarding the QSE or the information provided to ERCOT by the QSE, including:
(a)	The QSE’s addresses;
(b)	A list of Principals, as defined in Section 16.1.2, Principal of a Market Participant;
(c)	A list of Affiliates; and
(d)	Designation of the QSE’s officers, directors, Authorized Representatives, Credit Contacts, and User Security Administrator (USA) (all per the QSE application) including the telephone and e-mail addresses for those persons. 
16.2.3.3	Qualified Scheduling Entity Service Termination
(1)	If a QSE intends to terminate representation of a Resource Entity that owns or controls a Resource that is in the ERCOT Network Operations Model (other than a Resource Entity serving as its own QSE, in which case this Section does not apply), the QSE shall provide, no less than 45 days before the specified effective termination date (“Termination Date”), written notice to ERCOT and the Resource.
(2)	If a QSE intends to terminate representation of a Load Serving Entity (LSE) or a Resource Entity that does not own or control a Resource that is in the ERCOT Network Operations Model (other than an LSE or Resource Entity serving as its own QSE, in which case this Section does not apply), the QSE shall provide, no less than 12 Business Days before the specified effective Termination Date, written notice to ERCOT and the LSE or Resource Entity.
(3)	Effective at 2400 on the Termination Date specified by the QSE, the QSE may no longer provide QSE services for or represent the terminated LSE or Resource.  The QSE is responsible for settlement obligations that the QSE has incurred on behalf of the terminated LSE or Resource before the termination.  The QSE must participate in Real-Time Operations through the Termination Date and provide updates pursuant to these Protocols for the Operating Day which is the Termination Date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, before the Termination Date, the LSE/Resource: 
(a)	Affiliates itself with a new QSE, or 
(b)	Fulfills ERCOT’s creditworthiness requirements in order to become an Emergency QSE,
the QSE that provided notice of the intent to terminate representation of the LSE/ Resource will no longer be responsible for the terminated LSE/Resource upon the effective date of the new QSE’s representation of that LSE/Resource, or the LSE/Resource qualifying as an Emergency QSE.
(4)	Within two Business Days of notice of a QSE’s intent to terminate representation of an LSE, ERCOT shall notify the LSE of the level of credit the LSE must provide, if it becomes an Emergency QSE, and the date by which it must post the required collateral.
16.2.4	Posting of Qualified Scheduling Entity List
(1)	ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website and maintain a current list of all QSEs.  ERCOT shall include with that posting a cautionary statement that inclusion on that list does not necessarily mean that a QSE is entitled to provide any service to a third party, nor does it obligate a QSE to provide any service to a third party.
16.2.5	Suspended or Terminated Qualified Scheduling Entity – Notification to LSEs and Resource Entities Represented
(1)	If ERCOT suspends a QSE or terminates the QSE’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement for Default, ERCOT shall notify the affected LSEs and Resource Entities that the QSE has been suspended or terminated and the effective date of such suspension or termination.  
(2)	If an LSE or Resource Entity represented by a terminated or suspended QSE is the same Entity as the terminated or suspended QSE, the provisions of Section 16.11.6.1.6, Revocation of a Market Participant’s Rights and Termination of Agreements, shall apply to that LSE or Resource Entity, and that LSE or Resource Entity shall not be entitled to become an Emergency QSE.
16.2.6	Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity
16.2.6.1	Designation as an Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity or Virtual Qualified Scheduling Entity
(1)	A “Virtual QSE” is defined as an LSE or Resource Entity that has not qualified and been designated as an Emergency QSE, but has been designated by ERCOT to temporarily perform the responsibilities of a QSE. 
(2)	If a QSE has given Notice of its intent to terminate its relationship with an LSE or Resource Entity, that LSE or Resource Entity, must, by noon on the fourth Business Day after the termination notice date, either:
(a) 	Designate a new QSE with such relationship to take effect on the Termination Date, or earlier if allowed by ERCOT; or
(b) 	Satisfy all necessary creditworthiness requirements for QSEs as described in Section 16.2, Registration and Qualification of Qualified Scheduling Entities, and operate as an Emergency QSE as described below.  
(3)	If ERCOT has given Notice of an LSE’s or Resource Entity’s QSE’s termination or suspension, that LSE or Resource Entity will be designated as a Virtual QSE for up to two Bank Business Days, during which time it must either: 
	(a) 	Designate and begin operations with a new QSE; or
(b) 	Satisfy all necessary creditworthiness requirements for QSEs as described in Section 16.2, and operate as an Emergency QSE as described below.  As provided in paragraph (2) of Section 16.2.5, Suspended or Terminated Qualified Scheduling Entity – Notification to LSEs and Resource Entities Represented, this option does not apply to an LSE or Resource Entity represented by a terminated or suspended QSE that is the same Entity as the terminated or suspended QSE.
(4)	If an LSE or Resource Entity meets the creditworthiness requirements, the LSE or Resource Entity may be designated as an Emergency QSE except as provided in paragraph (2) of Section 16.2.5 and may, upon the Termination Date, be issued Digital Certificates and given access to the Market Information System (MIS) as determined by ERCOT.
(5)	If the LSE fails to meet the requirements of one of the above options in the timeframe set forth above, it shall constitute a QSE Affiliation Breach under the LSE’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement.  If the LSE fails to cure the QSE Affiliation Breach within the cure period set forth in the Standard Form Market Participant Agreement, and the LSE serves Load, ERCOT shall, after notice as specified in Retail Market Guide Section 7.11, Transition Process, initiate a Mass Transition of the LSE’s Electronic Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) pursuant to Section 15.1.3, Transition Process.
(6)	If a Resource Entity fails to meet the requirements of one of the options set forth in paragraph (2) or (3) above within the requisite timeframe, it shall constitute a QSE Affiliation Breach under the Resource Entity’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement, provided that ERCOT may allow the Resource Entity additional time, as determined by ERCOT staff, to meet the requirements.
(7)	For any Operating Day in which an LSE or Resource Entity is not either represented by a QSE or qualified as an Emergency QSE, ERCOT may designate the LSE or Resource Entity as a Virtual QSE.  ERCOT may issue Digital Certificates to the Virtual QSE for access to the capabilities of the MIS.  A Virtual QSE shall be liable for any and all charges associated with Initial, Final and True-Up Settlements as well as any Resettlements applying to dates during which the Virtual QSE represented ESI IDs or otherwise incurred charges pursuant to these Protocols, along with any and all costs incurred by ERCOT in collecting such amounts.
(8)	ERCOT shall maintain a referral list of qualified QSEs on the ERCOT website who request to be listed as providing QSE services on short notice.  The list shall include the QSE’s name, contact information and whether they are qualified to represent Load and/or Resources and/or provide Ancillary Services.  ERCOT shall not be obligated to verify the abilities of any QSE so listed.  ERCOT shall require all QSEs listed to confirm their inclusion on the referral list no later than the start of each calendar year.
16.2.6.2	Market Participation by an Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity or a Virtual Qualified Scheduling Entity
(1)	An Emergency QSE or a Virtual QSE may only represent itself; it may not represent another legal Entity. 
(2)	An Emergency QSE or a Virtual QSE that is also an LSE may only submit the following transactions, and may do so only to the extent that the transactions are intended to serve the Load of the Emergency QSE’s or Virtual QSE’s Customers: 
(a)	Energy Trades in which the Emergency QSE or the Virtual QSE is the buyer;
(b)	Capacity Trades in which the Emergency QSE or the Virtual QSE is the buyer;
(c)	Ancillary Service Trades in which the Emergency QSE or the Virtual QSE is the buyer; and
(d)	DAM Energy Bids. 
(3)	An Emergency QSE or a Virtual QSE that is also a Resource Entity may only submit transactions that are directly attributable to and wholly provided by the Resource Entity’s Resource(s).
16.2.6.3	Requirement to Obtain New Qualified Scheduling Entity or Qualified Scheduling Entity Qualification
(1)	Within seven Business Days after receiving designation as an Emergency QSE, an Emergency QSE must either: 
(a)	Designate a QSE that will represent the LSE or Resource Entity to ERCOT; or 
(b)	Fulfill all QSE registration and qualification requirements.  After completing the requirements in item (b), ERCOT may redesignate the Emergency QSE as a QSE.  
(2)	If an Emergency QSE that is an LSE fails to meet at least one of the requirements listed above within the allotted time, then ERCOT shall, after notice as specified in Retail Market Guide Section 7.11, Transition Process, initiate a Mass Transition of the LSE’s ESI IDs pursuant to Section 15.1.3, Transition Process.  If an Emergency QSE that is a Resource Entity fails to meet at least one of the requirements listed above within the allotted time, ERCOT may allow the Resource Entity additional time, as determined by ERCOT staff, to meet the requirements. 
16.2.7	Acceleration
(1)	Upon termination of a QSE’s rights as a QSE and the Standard Form Market Participant Agreement or any other Agreement(s) between ERCOT and the QSE, all sums owed to ERCOT are immediately accelerated and are immediately due and owing in full.  At that time, ERCOT may immediately draw upon any security or other collateral pledged to ERCOT and may offset or recoup all amounts due to ERCOT to satisfy those due and owing amounts.
16.3	Registration of Load Serving Entities
(1)	Load Serving Entities (LSEs) provide electric service to Customers and Wholesale Customers.  LSEs include Non-Opt-In Entities (NOIEs) that serve Load, Competitive Retailers (CRs) (which includes Retail Electric Providers (REPs)), and External Load Serving Entities (ELSEs).  Each LSE must register with ERCOT.  To become registered as an LSE, an Entity must execute a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (using the form in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement), designate LSE Authorized Representatives, contacts, and a User Security Administrator (USA) (per Section 23, Form B, Load Serving Entity (LSE) Application for Registration), and demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that it is capable of performing the functions of an LSE under these Protocols.   Additionally, a REP must demonstrate certification by P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.107, Certification of Retail Electric Providers (REPs), and comply with the remaining requirements of this Section.
(2) 	All CRs must participate in and successfully complete testing as described in Section 19.8, Retail Market Testing, prior to commencing operations with ERCOT.
(3)	ERCOT may require that the Entity satisfactorily complete testing of interfaces between the Entity’s systems and relevant ERCOT systems.  
(4)	An Entity that wishes to register as an ELSE shall select the ELSE status on the LSE application (Section 23, Form B, Load Serving Entity (LSE) Application for Registration) and other registration forms as designated by ERCOT.  An ELSE shall provide all information sufficient to justify its designation as an ELSE if so requested by ERCOT.
(5)	An ELSE shall assign an Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) for each wholesale point of delivery as specified in these Protocols.  An ESI ID shall not be assigned to any individual Customer behind an ELSE wholesale point of delivery.
16.3.1	Technical and Managerial Requirements for LSE Applicants
(1)	An LSE applicant must:
(a)	Be capable of complying with all policies, rules, guidelines, registration requirements and procedures established by these Protocols, ERCOT, or other Independent Organizations, if applicable;
(b)	Be capable of purchasing  power from Entities registered with or by ERCOT or the Independent Organizations and capable of complying with its system rules; and,
(c)	Be capable of purchasing capacity and reserves, or other Ancillary Services, as may be required by ERCOT, or other Independent Organizations, to provide adequate electricity to all the applicant’s Customers.
16.3.1.1	Designation of a Qualified Scheduling Entity
(1)	Each LSE applicant within the ERCOT Region shall designate the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that will perform QSE functions per these Protocols on behalf of the LSE.  Each applicant shall acknowledge that it bears sole responsibility for selecting and maintaining a QSE as its representative.  The applicant shall include a written statement from the designated QSE acknowledging that the QSE accepts responsibility for the applicant’s transactions under these Protocols (Section 23, Form B, Attachment A).  The acknowledgement of the LSE’s QSE designation must be approved by ERCOT prior to a CR’s enrollment of Customer ESI IDs or prior to NOIE or ELSE registration of a wholesale point of delivery.
(2)	If an LSE fails to maintain a QSE as its representative, the LSE may be designated as an Emergency QSE as provided in Section 16.2.6.1, Designation as an Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity or Virtual Qualified Scheduling Entity.
16.3.2	Registration Process for Load Serving Entities
(1)	Any Entity providing electric service to Customers in ERCOT, or in Non-ERCOT portions of Texas in areas where Customer Choice is in effect, must submit to ERCOT an LSE application (Section 23, Form B, Load Serving Entity (LSE) Application for Registration).  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the form in which LSE applications must be submitted, all materials that must be provided with the LSE application, and the fee schedule, if any, applicable to LSE applications.  
(2)	The LSE application must be attested to by a duly authorized officer or agent of the applicant.  The applicant shall promptly notify ERCOT of any material changes affecting a pending LSE application using the appropriate form posted on the ERCOT website.  
16.3.2.1	Notice of Receipt of Load Serving Entity Application
(1)	Within three Business Days after receiving an LSE application, ERCOT shall issue the LSE applicant a written confirmation that ERCOT has received the LSE application.  ERCOT shall return without review any LSE application that does not include the proper application fee.  The remainder of this Section does not apply to any LSE application returned for failure to include the proper application fee.
16.3.2.2	Incomplete Load Serving Entity Applications
(1)	Not more than ten Business Days after receiving an LSE application, ERCOT shall notify the applicant in writing whether the application is complete.
(2)	If ERCOT determines that an LSE application is not complete, ERCOT’s notice must explain the reasons for that determination and the additional information necessary to make the application complete.  The applicant has five Business Days from receiving ERCOT’s notice, or such longer period as ERCOT may allow, to provide the additional information set forth in ERCOT’s notice.  If the applicant timely responds to ERCOT’s notice with the required additional information, then the application is deemed complete on the date that ERCOT receives the applicant’s response.
(3)	If the applicant does not timely respond to ERCOT’s Notice, then the application must be rejected, and ERCOT shall retain any application fee included with the application.
16.3.2.3	ERCOT Approval or Rejection of Load Serving Entity Application
(1)	ERCOT may reject an LSE application within ten Business Days after the application has been deemed complete in accordance with this Section.  If ERCOT does not reject the LSE application within ten Business Days after the application is deemed complete then the application is deemed approved.
(2)	If ERCOT rejects a LSE application, ERCOT shall send the LSE applicant a rejection letter explaining the grounds upon which ERCOT rejected the LSE application.  Appropriate grounds for rejecting a LSE application include the following:
(a)	Required information is not provided to ERCOT in the allotted time;
(b)	Noncompliance with technical requirements; and
(c)	Noncompliance with other specific eligibility requirements set forth in this Section or in any other part of these Protocols.
(3)	Not later than ten Business Days after receiving a rejection letter, the LSE applicant may challenge the rejection of its LSE application using the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure.  The applicant may submit a new LSE application and fee at any time, and ERCOT shall process the new LSE application under this Section.
16.3.3 	Changing QSE Designation 
(1)	An LSE may change its designation of QSE with written notice to ERCOT no more than once in any consecutive three days.  
(2)	If an LSE’s representation by a QSE will terminate or the LSE intends to be represented by a different QSE, the LSE shall provide the name of the newly designated QSE to ERCOT along with a written statement from the designated QSE acknowledging the QSE’s agreement to accept responsibility for the LSE’s transactions under these Protocols.  ERCOT shall notify the LSE of approval or disapproval as soon as practicable after receipt of the designation.
(3)	The LSE shall submit updated QSE designation information to ERCOT no less than six days prior to the effective date.  
(4)	Within two days of approving the LSE’s notice, ERCOT shall notify all affected Entities, including the LSE’s current QSE, of the effective date of the change.
16.3.4	Maintaining and Updating LSE Information 
(1)	Each LSE must timely update information the LSE provided to ERCOT in the application process, and an LSE must promptly respond to any reasonable request by ERCOT for updated information regarding the LSE or the information provided to ERCOT by the LSE, including:
(a)	The LSE’s addresses;
(b)	A list of Affiliates; and
(c)	Designation of the LSE’s officers, directors, Authorized Representatives, and USA (all per the LSE application) including the telephone and e-mail addresses for those persons.
16.4	Registration of Transmission and Distribution Service Providers
(1)	Each Entity operating as a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) within the ERCOT Region, including Municipally Owned Utilities (MOUs) and Electric Cooperatives (ECs), shall register as a TSP or DSP, or both, as applicable, with ERCOT.  To register as a TSP or DSP, an Entity must comply with the backup plan requirements in the Operating Guides, execute a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (using the form provided in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement), designate TSP or DSP Authorized Representatives, contacts, and a User Security Administrator (USA) (per Section 23, Form J, Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Application for Registration), and be capable of performing the functions of a TSP or DSP, as applicable, as described in these Protocols. 
(2)	DSPs operating within portions of Texas in areas where Customer Choice is in effect (including opt-in MOUs and opt-in co-ops) must participate in and successfully complete testing as described in Section 19.8, Retail Market Testing, before starting operations with ERCOT.
16.5	Registration of a Resource Entity 
(1)	A Resource Entity owns or controls a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or Load Resource connected to the ERCOT System.  Each Resource Entity operating in the ERCOT Region must register with ERCOT.  To become registered as a Resource Entity, an Entity must execute a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (using the form in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement), designate Resource Entity Authorized Representatives, contacts, and a User Security Administrator (USA) (per the Application for Registration as a Resource Entity), and demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that it is capable of performing the functions of a Resource Entity under these Protocols.  The Resource Entity shall provide Resource Registration data pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, for each Resource or SOG through ERCOT registration, except for Distributed Generation (DG) with an installed capacity equal to or lower than the DG registration threshold that has chosen not to register with ERCOT.  A Resource Entity may submit a proposal to register the aggregation of generators, with the exception of Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) pursuant to paragraph (13) of Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, as an Aggregate Generation Resource (AGR) which ERCOT may grant at its sole discretion.  A Resource Entity may submit a proposal to register a SOG consisting of an Energy Storage System (ESS) or a combination of ESS and non-ESS generation.  The Resource Entity must identify all components of the SOG as part of the Resource Registration process.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(1)	A Resource Entity owns or controls a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Generator (SOG), Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS), or Load Resource connected to the ERCOT System.  Each Resource Entity operating in the ERCOT Region must register with ERCOT.  To become registered as a Resource Entity, an Entity must execute a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (using the form in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement), designate Resource Entity Authorized Representatives, contacts, and a User Security Administrator (USA) (per the Application for Registration as a Resource Entity), and demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that it is capable of performing the functions of a Resource Entity under these Protocols.  The Resource Entity shall provide Resource Registration data pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, for each Resource, SOG, or SOESS through ERCOT registration, except for Distributed Generation (DG) with an installed capacity equal to or lower than the DG registration threshold that has chosen not to register with ERCOT.  A Resource Entity may submit a proposal to register the aggregation of generators, with the exception of Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs) pursuant to paragraph (13) of Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, as an Aggregate Generation Resource (AGR) which ERCOT may grant at its sole discretion.  If a Resource Entity intends to register one or more Energy Storage Systems (ESSs) and one or more non-ESS generators as SOGs at the same site, the Resource Entity must provide an affidavit attesting to the amount of ESS and non-ESS capacity at the site as a condition for registration.    
(2)	Prior to commissioning, Resources Entities will regularly update the data necessary for modeling.  These updates will reflect the best available information at the time submitted.
(3)	Once ERCOT has received a new or amended Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA) or a letter from a duly authorized official from the Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or Electric Cooperative (EC) and has determined that the proposed Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG meets the requirements of Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, ERCOT shall review the description of the proposed Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG in Exhibit “C” (or similar exhibit) to the SGIA and the data submitted pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2 to assess whether the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG, as proposed, would violate any operational standards established in the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guides, and Other Binding Documents.  ERCOT must provide its determination to the Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the owner of the proposed Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG within 90 days of the date the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG meets the conditions for review.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this determination shall not preclude ERCOT from subsequently determining that the Generation Resource, ESR, or SOG violates any operational standards established in the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guides, and Other Binding Documents or from taking any appropriate action based on that determination.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(3)	Once ERCOT has received a new or amended Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA) or a letter from a duly authorized official from the Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or Electric Cooperative (EC) and has determined that the proposed Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or SOESS meets the requirements of Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, ERCOT shall review the description of the proposed Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or SOESS in Exhibit “C” (or similar exhibit) to the SGIA and the data submitted pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, to assess whether the Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or SOESS, as proposed, would violate any operational standards established in the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guides, and Other Binding Documents.  ERCOT must provide its determination to the Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the owner of the proposed Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or SOESS within 90 days of the date the Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or SOESS meets the conditions for review.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this determination shall not preclude ERCOT from subsequently determining that the Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or SOESS violates any operational standards established in the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guides, and Other Binding Documents or from taking any appropriate action based on that determination.
(4)	An Interconnecting Entity (IE) shall not proceed to Initial Synchronization of a Generation Resource, ESR, Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), or Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG) in the event of any of the following conditions:
(a)	Pursuant to paragraph (3) above, ERCOT has reasonably determined that the Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, or SOTSG may violate operational standards established in the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guides, and Other Binding Documents, and the Resource Entity has not yet demonstrated to ERCOT’s satisfaction that the Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, or SOTSG can comply with these standards;
(b)	The requirements of Planning Guide Section 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment, if applicable, have not been completed for the Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, or SOTSG; or
(c)	Any required Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) studies, SSR Mitigation Plan, SSR Protection, and SSR monitoring if required, have not been completed and approved by ERCOT.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(4)	An Interconnecting Entity (IE) shall not proceed to Initial Synchronization of a Generation Resource, ESR, Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), Settlement Only Transmission Self-Generator (SOTSG), or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS) in the event of any of the following conditions:
(a)	Pursuant to paragraph (3) above, ERCOT has reasonably determined that the Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, SOTSG, or SOTESS may violate operational standards established in the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guides, and Other Binding Documents, and the Resource Entity has not yet demonstrated to ERCOT’s satisfaction that the Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, SOTSG, or SOTESS can comply with these standards;
(b)	The requirements of Planning Guide Section 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment, if applicable, have not been completed for the Generation Resource, ESR, SOTG, SOTSG, or SOTESS; or
(c)	Any required Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) studies, SSR Mitigation Plan, SSR Protection, and SSR monitoring if required, have not been completed and approved by ERCOT.
(5)	DG with an installed capacity greater than one MW, the DG registration threshold, which exports energy into a Distribution System, must register with ERCOT.  
(6)	A Resource Entity representing an ESR shall register the ESR as an ESR.  ERCOT systems, including the Energy and Market Management System (EMMS) and Settlement system, shall continue to treat the ESR as both a Generation Resource and a Controllable Load Resource until such time as all ERCOT systems are capable of treating an ESR as a single Resource.
[NPRR1246:  Delete paragraph (6) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
16.5.1	Technical and Managerial Requirements for Resource Entity Applicants
(1)	A Resource Entity applicant must:
(a)	Be capable of complying with all policies, rules, guidelines, registration requirements, and procedures established by these Protocols, ERCOT, or other Independent Organizations, if applicable; and
(b)	Be capable of purchasing power from Entities registered with or by ERCOT or the Independent Organizations and capable of complying with its system rules.
16.5.1.1	Designation of a Qualified Scheduling Entity
(1)	Each Resource Entity applicant within the ERCOT Region shall designate the Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that will perform QSE functions per these Protocols on behalf of the Resource Entity.  Each applicant shall acknowledge that it bears sole responsibility for selecting and maintaining a QSE as its representative.  The applicant shall include a written statement from the designated QSE acknowledging that the QSE accepts responsibility for the applicant’s transactions pursuant to these Protocols.  For the Resource Entity that owns or operates a Resource, the Resource Entity’s QSE designation must be submitted to ERCOT no later than 45 days prior to the Network Operations Model change date, as described in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes, for the Resource.
(2)	If a Resource Entity fails to maintain a QSE as its representative, the Resource Entity may be designated as an Emergency QSE as provided in Section 16.2.6.1, Designation as an Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity or Virtual Qualified Scheduling Entity.
16.5.1.2	Waiver for Federal Hydroelectric Facilities
(1)	ERCOT may grant a waiver to any federally owned hydroelectric Generation Resource, SOG, or Load Resource within the ERCOT System from fulfilling the requirements in Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, as they pertain to the submission of a Resource Entity application and the execution of a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement).  ERCOT may grant such waiver after the federally owned hydroelectric Resource Entity provides ERCOT with the following:
(a)	All information necessary to meet the Resource Entity registration requirements as provided in this Section;
(b)	The designation of a QSE for each Generation Resource, SOG, or Load Resource that it owns or controls; and
(c)	Assignment of each Generation Resource’s, SOG’s, or Load Resource’s Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) to a Load Serving Entity (LSE) serving any Load or net Load, if the Generation Resource, SOG, or Load Resource is net metered and will be connected to the ERCOT System.  Such Load, if retail Load, is subject to all applicable rules and procedures, including rules concerning disconnection and Provider of Last Resort (POLR) service, applicable to other retail points of delivery.
[NPRR995:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(1)	ERCOT may grant a waiver to any federally owned hydroelectric Generation Resource, SOG, SOESS, or Load Resource within the ERCOT System from fulfilling the requirements in Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, as they pertain to the submission of a Resource Entity application and the execution of a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement).  ERCOT may grant such waiver after the federally owned hydroelectric Resource Entity provides ERCOT with the following:
(a)	All information necessary to meet the Resource Entity registration requirements as provided in this Section;
(b)	The designation of a QSE for each Generation Resource, SOG, SOESS, or Load Resource that it owns or controls; and
(c)	Assignment of each Generation Resource’s, SOG’s, SOESS’s, or Load Resource’s Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) to a Load Serving Entity (LSE) serving any Load or net Load, if the Generation Resource, SOG, SOESS, or Load Resource is net metered and will be connected to the ERCOT System.  Such Load, if retail Load, is subject to all applicable rules and procedures, including rules concerning disconnection and Provider of Last Resort (POLR) service, applicable to other retail points of delivery.
16.5.1.3	Waiver for Block Load Transfer Resources
(1)	ERCOT may grant a waiver to a Resource Entity for a Block Load Transfer (BLT) Resource from fulfilling the requirements in Section 16.5, Registration of a Resource Entity, as they pertain to the submission of a Resource Entity application and the execution of a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement).  ERCOT may grant such waiver after the Resource Entity for the BLT Resource provides ERCOT with the following:
(a)	All applicable information necessary to meet the Resource Entity registration requirements as provided in this Section; and
(b)	The designation of a QSE for the BLT Resource.
16.5.2	Registration Process for a Resource Entity
(1)	To register as a Resource Entity, an applicant must submit to ERCOT a completed Resource Entity application and any applicable fee.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the form in which Resource Entity applications must be submitted, all materials that must be provided with the Resource Entity application.  
(2)	The Resource Entity application must be attested to by a duly authorized officer or agent of the applicant.  The applicant shall promptly notify ERCOT of any material changes affecting a pending Resource Entity application using the appropriate form posted on the ERCOT website.  
(3)	If the Resource Entity intends to own or control a Load Resource located within a Non-Opt-In Entity’s (NOIE’s) service territory, such applicant must designate the NOIE’s QSE, or an alternate QSE authorized by the NOIE.  If an alternate QSE is designated, then such QSE representing that Load Resource must first obtain written permission from the NOIE prior to offering any services in the NOIE’s service territory.  The alternate QSE shall submit the NOIE’s written permission to ERCOT at the time of designation.
16.5.2.1	Notice of Receipt of Resource Entity Application
(1)	Within three Business Days after receiving a Resource Entity application, ERCOT shall issue the Resource Entity applicant a written confirmation that ERCOT has received the application.  ERCOT shall return without review any Resource Entity application that is not complete.
16.5.2.2	Incomplete Resource Entity Applications
(1)	Not more than ten Business Days after receiving a Resource Entity application, ERCOT shall notify the applicant in writing whether the application is complete.
(2)	If ERCOT determines that a Resource Entity application is not complete, ERCOT’s notice must explain the reasons for that determination and the additional information necessary to make the application complete.  The applicant has five Business Days from receiving ERCOT’s notice, or such longer period as ERCOT may allow, to provide the additional information set forth in ERCOT’s notice.  If the applicant timely responds to ERCOT’s notice with the required additional information, then the application is deemed complete on the date that ERCOT receives the applicant’s response. 
(3)	If the applicant does not timely respond to ERCOT’s notice, then the application must be rejected, and ERCOT shall retain any application fee included with the application.
16.5.2.3	ERCOT Approval or Rejection of a Resource Entity Application
(1)	ERCOT may reject a Resource Entity application within ten Business Days after the application has been deemed complete in accordance with this Section.  If ERCOT does not reject the Resource Entity application within ten Business Days after the application is deemed complete then the application is deemed approved.
(2)	If ERCOT rejects a Resource Entity application, ERCOT shall send the Resource Entity applicant a rejection letter explaining the grounds upon which ERCOT rejected the Resource Entity application.  Appropriate grounds for rejecting a Resource Entity application include the following:
(a)	Required information is not provided to ERCOT in the allotted time;
(b)	Noncompliance with technical requirements; and
(c)	Noncompliance with other specific eligibility requirements set forth in this Section or in any other part of these Protocols.
(3)	Not later than ten Business Days after receiving a rejection letter, the Resource Entity applicant may challenge the rejection of its Resource Entity application using the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure.  The applicant may submit a new Resource Entity application and fee at any time, and ERCOT shall process the new Resource Entity application under this Section.
16.5.3	Changing QSE Designation
(1)	A Resource Entity may change its designation of QSE with written notice to ERCOT, no more than once in any consecutive three days.  
(2)	If a Resource Entity’s representation by a QSE will terminate or the Resource Entity intends to be represented by a different QSE, the Resource Entity shall provide the name of the newly designated QSE to ERCOT along with a written statement from the newly designated QSE acknowledging the QSE’s agreement to accept responsibility for the Resource Entity’s transactions under these Protocols.  For the Resource Entity that owns or operates a Resource, the Resource Entity’s QSE designation must be submitted to ERCOT no later than 45 days before the effective date of the change, unless otherwise approved by ERCOT, before the Resource Entity will be evaluated for compliance with the requirements of paragraph (3) below.  ERCOT shall notify the Resource Entity of approval or disapproval as soon as practicable after receipt of the request.
(3)	For Resources required by these Protocols to be in the Network Operations Model, the following apply:
(a)	The designated QSE shall install all telemetry required of these Protocols for the requesting Resource Entity and schedule point-to-point data verification with ERCOT.  
(b)	The designated QSE shall submit telemetry data descriptions to ERCOT to meet ERCOT’s normal model update process.
(c)	The Resource must submit any changes in system topology or telemetry according to Section 3.3.2.1, Information to Be Provided to ERCOT.  
(d)	The effective date for the newly designated QSE shall be in accordance with Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  
(e)	ERCOT may request the Resource Entity to develop a transition implementation plan to be approved by ERCOT that sets appropriate deadlines for completion of all required data and telemetry verification and cutover testing activities with ERCOT.
(4)	For all other Resources, the new QSE designation is to be received no less than six days prior to the effective date.  
(5)	Within two days of approving a Resource Entity’s notice, ERCOT shall notify all affected Entities, including the Resource Entity’s current QSE, of the effective date of the change.  
16.5.4	Maintaining and Updating Resource Entity Information 
(1)	Each Resource Entity must timely update information the Resource Entity provided to ERCOT in the application process, and a Resource Entity must promptly respond to any reasonable request by ERCOT for updated information regarding the Resource Entity or the information provided to ERCOT by the Resource Entity, including:
(a)	The Resource Entity’s addresses;
(b)	A list of Affiliates; and
(c)	Designation of the Resource Entity’s officers, directors, Authorized Representatives, and USA (all per the Resource Entity application) including the telephone and e-mail addresses for those persons.
(2)	A Resource Entity that has a Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) shall submit a report to ERCOT in writing indicating whether or not it has any contractual requirement in a non-ERCOT Control Area for each season as defined in Section 3.2.6.4, Total Capacity Estimates, which may cause the identified capacity to not be available to the ERCOT System for the subsequent ten years.  The initial communication and subsequent updates to previously reported unavailable capacity shall be filed with ERCOT as soon as possible, but in no event later than ten Business Days after the information is obtained.  The communications should reflect the Resource Entity’s best estimate of the required information at the time the filing is made.  ERCOT shall use the provided data for preparation of the Report on Capacity, Demand and Reserves in the ERCOT Region (CDR) and other planning purposes.  The SWGR information reporting form is located on the ERCOT website.
16.6	Registration of Municipally Owned Utilities and Electric Cooperatives in the ERCOT Region
(1)	Each Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) and Electric Cooperative (EC) shall register with ERCOT and sign the Agreements that apply to the functions it performs in the ERCOT Region, regardless of whether planning to be a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE) or a Competitive Retailer (CR).
(2)	If an MOU or EC decides to register an affiliate as a CR, it must notify ERCOT of its intentions six months prior to opting in.  
(3)	Each MOU and EC shall assign an Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) to each NOIE wholesale point of delivery as specified in these Protocols.  The ESI IDs must be assigned to a Load Serving Entity (LSE).
16.7	Registration of Renewable Energy Credit Account Holders
(1)	Each Entity intending to participate in the Renewable Energy Credit (REC) program shall register with ERCOT and execute a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (as provided in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement) prior to participation in the REC program.
16.8	Registration and Qualification of Congestion Revenue Rights Account Holders
16.8.1	Criteria for Qualification as a CRR Account Holder 
(1)	To become and remain a Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder, an Entity must meet the following requirements: 
(a)	Submit a properly completed CRR Account Holder application (Section 23, Form A, Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder Application for Registration) for qualification, including any applicable fee, any necessary disclosures, and designation of Authorized Representatives, each of whom is responsible for administrative communications with the CRR Account Holder and each of whom has enough authority to commit and bind the CRR Account Holder;
(b)	Comply with ERCOT’s background check process, as described in Section 16.8.1.1, CRR Account Holder Background Check Process;
(c)	Demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the Entity does not pose an “Unreasonable Financial Risk”, as described in this Section;
(d)	Sign a CRR Account Holder Agreement; 
(e)	Sign any required Agreements relating to use of the ERCOT network, software, and systems;
(f)	Demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the Entity is capable of performing the functions of a CRR Account Holder; 
(g)	Demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that the Entity is capable of complying with the requirements of all ERCOT Protocols and Operating Guides; 
(h)	Satisfy ERCOT’s creditworthiness requirements as set forth in this Section;
(i)	Be generally able to pay its debts as they come due; ERCOT may request evidence of compliance with this qualification only if ERCOT reasonably believes that a CRR Account Holder is failing to comply with it;
(j)	Provide all necessary bank account information and arrange for Fedwire system transfers for two-way confirmation; 
(k)	Be financially responsible for payment of its Settlement charges under these Protocols; and
(l)	Not be an unbundled Transmission Service Provider (TSP), Distribution Service Provider (DSP), or an ERCOT employee.
(2)	A CRR Account Holder must be able to demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that it does not pose an Unreasonable Financial Risk.  Unreasonable Financial Risk as used in Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, is a risk of financial default posed to ERCOT or its Market Participants by participation of an Entity or its Principals in the ERCOT market.  Indicators of Unreasonable Financial Risk may include, but are not limited to: past market manipulation, trading violations, or other finance-related violations based upon a final adjudication in state or federal regulatory or legal proceedings; financial defaults in ERCOT or other energy markets resulting in losses or uplifts; indications of imminent bankruptcy or insolvency, or other past civil judgement or criminal conviction that reflects problematic behavior on the part of the Entity or its Principals.
(3)	A CRR Account Holder or CRR Account Holder applicant must be able to demonstrate to ERCOT’s reasonable satisfaction that none of its Principals were or are Principals of any Entity with an outstanding payment obligation that remains owing to ERCOT under any Agreement or these Protocols.  For purposes of this Section, ERCOT will only consider disqualifying those Principals of the CRR Account Holder or CRR Account Holder applicant who were Principals of the other Entity at a time during which the unpaid financial obligation remained owing to ERCOT or during the 120-day period prior to the date on which the unpaid financial obligation first became due and owing to ERCOT.
(4)	If any of a CRR Account Holder’s or CRR Account Holder applicant’s Principals were or are Principals of a terminated Market Participant with an obligation for Default Uplift Ratio Share allocated under Section 9.19.1, Default Uplift Invoices, the terminated Market Participant must be current on all payment obligations for Default Uplift Invoices in order for the CRR Account Holder to remain, or CRR Account Holder applicant to become, a registered CRR Account Holder.  For purposes of this Section, ERCOT will only consider as disqualifying those Principals of the CRR Account Holder or CRR Account Holder applicant who were Principals of the other Entity at a time during which the other Entity was not current on its payment obligation for Default Uplift Invoices or 120 days prior to the date the other Entity first failed to pay a Default Uplift Invoice.
(5)	A CRR Account Holder shall promptly notify ERCOT of any material change that a reasonable examiner could deem material to the CRR Account Holder’s ability to continue to meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs (1) to (4) above, and any material change in the information provided by the CRR Account Holder to ERCOT that may adversely affect the financial security of ERCOT.  This includes any changes in the Principals of the CRR Account Holder.  If the CRR Account Holder fails to so notify ERCOT of the following within two Business Days after becoming aware of the change, then ERCOT may refuse to allow the CRR Account Holder to continue to perform as a CRR Account Holder and take any other action ERCOT deems appropriate, in its sole discretion, to prevent ERCOT or Market Participants from bearing potential or actual risks, financial or otherwise, arising from those changes, and in accordance with these Protocols. 
(6)	Continued qualification as a CRR Account Holder is contingent upon compliance with all applicable requirements in these Protocols.  ERCOT may suspend a CRR Account Holder’s rights as a Market Participant when ERCOT reasonably determines that it is an appropriate remedy for the Entity’s failure to satisfy any applicable requirement.
16.8.1.1	CRR Account Holder Background Check Process
(1)	CRR Account Holder applicants must satisfy a background check as a part of the ERCOT registration process.  All background checks will be performed by a third-party acting on ERCOT’s behalf.  Upon ERCOT’s request, a registered CRR Account Holder may be required to satisfy a background check as a condition of maintaining its ERCOT registration.
(2)	A CRR Account Holder, CRR Account Holder applicants, and their Principals, will provide the following disclosures to complete a CRR Account Holder background check:
(a)	Any civil or criminal matters involving the applicant, its predecessors, Affiliates, or Principals within the last ten years that resulted in a conviction or finding of fraud, theft, larceny, deceit, deceptive trade practices, or a violation of securities or customer protection laws;
(b)	Any complaint, formal investigation, or disciplinary action concerning financial matters initiated by or with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), a self-regulatory organization, Independent System Operator or Regional Transmission Organization, or a state public utility commission or securities board directly involving the actions of the applicant, its predecessors, Affiliates, or Principals within the last ten years;
(c)	Any default involving the applicant, its predecessors, Affiliates, or Principals, that impacted or revoked the right to operate in any other energy market within the last ten years;
(d)	Any bankruptcy by the applicant, its predecessors, Affiliates, or Principals within the last ten years; and
(e)	Any other information ERCOT deems reasonably necessary to complete a background check (e.g., Social Security Number(s), birth dates, home addresses).  
(3)	As required by paragraph (5) of Section 16.8.1, Criteria for Qualification as a CRR Account Holder, a CRR Account Holder, CRR Account Holder applicants, and their Principals, must promptly provide ERCOT notice of any change that a reasonable examiner could deem material to the CRR Account Holder’s ability to continue to satisfy the background check requirement, including any change to information that must be disclosed. 
16.8.2	CRR Account Holder Application Process  
(1)	To register as a CRR Account Holder, an applicant must submit to ERCOT a completed Section 23, Form A, Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder Application for Registration, and any applicable fee.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the form in which CRR Account Holder applications must be submitted, all materials that must be provided with the CRR Account Holder application and the fee schedule, if any, applicable to CRR Account Holder applications.  The CRR Account Holder application shall be attested to by a duly authorized officer or agent of the applicant.  The CRR Account Holder applicant shall promptly notify ERCOT of any material changes affecting a pending application using the appropriate form posted on the ERCOT website.  The application must be submitted at least 60 days before the first day of participation in the CRR Auction process or purchase of CRRs.
16.8.2.1	Notice of Receipt of CRR Account Holder Application
(1)	Within three Business Days after receiving a CRR Account Holder application, ERCOT shall issue to the applicant a written confirmation that ERCOT has received the CRR Account Holder application.  ERCOT shall return without review any CRR Account Holder application that does not include the proper application fee.  The remainder of this Section does not apply to any CRR Account Holder application returned for failure to include the proper application fee.
16.8.2.2	Incomplete CRR Account Holder Applications  
(1)	Within ten Business Days after receiving a CRR Account Holder application, ERCOT shall notify the applicant in writing if the application is incomplete.  An application will not be deemed complete until ERCOT has received all information necessary to conduct an evaluation of whether the applicant satisfies the requirements to be registered as a CRR Account Holder, including information necessary to complete any needed background checks.
(2)	If a CRR Account Holder application is incomplete, ERCOT’s notice of incompletion to the applicant must explain the deficiencies and describe the additional information necessary to make the CRR Account Holder application complete.  The CRR Account Holder applicant has five Business Days after it receives the notice, or a longer period if ERCOT allows, to provide the additional required information.
(3)	If the applicant does not respond to the incompletion notice within the time allotted, ERCOT shall reject the application and shall notify the applicant using the procedures below.
(4)	ERCOT will notify the applicant of the date on which the application is deemed complete.
16.8.2.3	ERCOT Approval or Rejection of CRR Account Holder Application
(1)	ERCOT will approve or reject a CRR Account Holder application within 60 days after the application has been deemed complete as provided for in Section 16.8.2.2, Incomplete CRR Account Holder Applications, unless ERCOT determines that additional time is needed to complete its review of the application.  ERCOT will notify the applicant when additional time is needed to complete its review and will provide a date by which ERCOT expects to complete its review.  If ERCOT’s initial evaluation indicates that there may be a basis to reject the application, ERCOT may contact the applicant prior to rendering a final decision on the application to determine if further information can be provided by the applicant to resolve the identified concern.
(2)	If ERCOT rejects a CRR Account Holder application, ERCOT shall send the applicant a rejection letter explaining the grounds upon which ERCOT rejected the CRR Account Holder application.  Appropriate grounds for rejecting a CRR Account Holder application include the following:
(a)	Required information is not provided to ERCOT in the allotted time;
(b)	Noncompliance with technical requirements; and
(c)	Noncompliance with other specific eligibility requirements in this Section or in any other Protocols.
(3)	Not later than ten Business Days after receiving a rejection letter, the CRR Account Holder applicant may challenge the rejection of its CRR Account Holder application using the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure.  The applicant may submit a new CRR Account Holder application and fee at any time, and ERCOT shall process the new CRR Account Holder application under this Section.
(4)	If ERCOT approves the CRR Account Holder application, ERCOT shall send the applicant a CRR Account Holder Agreement and any other required Agreements relating to use of the ERCOT network, software, and systems for the applicant’s signature. 
(5)	If ERCOT fails to approve or deny the CRR Account Holder application within 60 days after the application is deemed complete, and fails to notify the applicant that additional time is needed to complete its review, the CRR Account Holder may seek relief using the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 20.
16.8.3	Remaining Steps for CRR Account Holder Registration
(1)	After a CRR Account Holder application is deemed approved under Section 16.8.2.3, ERCOT Approval or Rejection of CRR Account Holder Application, the applicant shall coordinate or perform the following:
(a)	Return the signed CRR Account Holder Agreement and other related agreements to ERCOT; and
(b)	Demonstrate compliance with security and financial requirements.
16.8.3.1	Maintaining and Updating CRR Account Holder Information 
(1)	Each CRR Account Holder must timely update information the CRR Account Holder provided to ERCOT in the application process, and a CRR Account Holder must promptly respond to any reasonable request by ERCOT for updated information regarding the CRR Account Holder or the information provided to ERCOT by the CRR Account Holder, including:
(a)	The CRR Account Holder’s addresses;
(b)	A list of Principals;
(c)	A list of Affiliates; and
(d)	Designation of the CRR Account Holder’s officers, directors, Authorized Representatives, Credit Contacts, and User Security Administrator (USA) (all per the CRR Account Holder application) including the telephone and e-mail addresses for those persons. 
16.9	Resources Providing Reliability Must-Run Service
(1)	Any Entity providing Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Service must comply with all the requirements to become a Resource Entity under this Section and must sign an RMR Agreement (Section 22, Attachment B, Standard Form Reliability Must-Run Agreement).  
16.10	Resources Providing Black Start Service
(1)	Any Entity providing Black Start Service must comply with all the requirements to become a Resource Entity under this Section and must sign a Standard Form Black Start Agreement (Section 22, Attachment D, Standard Form Black Start Agreement). 
16.11	Financial Security for Counter-Parties
(1)	The term “Financial Security” in this Section means the collateral amount posted with ERCOT in any of the forms listed in Section 16.11.3, Alternative Means of Satisfying ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements.
(2)	The term “Remainder Collateral” in this Section means the Financial Security minus Total Potential Exposure Secured (TPES) minus Net Positive Exposure of approved Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Bilateral Trades minus Available Credit Limit (ACL) locked for CRR Auction, calculated in accordance with paragraph (3) of Section 16.11.4.6.1, Credit Requirements for CRR Auction Participation. 
(3)	The term “Ultimate Parent” in this Section is defined as the most distant parent that prepares consolidated financial statements within the hierarchical ownership structure.
16.11.1	ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements for Counter-Parties 
(1)	Each Counter-Party shall meet ERCOT’s creditworthiness standards as provided in this Section.  A Counter-Party must, at all times, maintain its Financial Security at or above the amount of its Total Potential Exposure (TPE).  Each Counter-Party shall maintain any required Financial Security in a form acceptable to ERCOT in its sole discretion.  If at any time the Counter-Party does not meet ERCOT’s creditworthiness requirements, then ERCOT may suspend the Counter-Party’s rights under these Protocols until it meets those creditworthiness requirements.  ERCOT’s failure to suspend the Counter-Party’s rights on any particular occasion does not prevent ERCOT from suspending those rights on any subsequent occasion, including a CRR Account Holder’s ability to bid on future CRRs or a Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) ability to bid in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM).
(2)	Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (1) above, ERCOT may draw on Financial Security if necessary to pay short-pays of Securitization Default Charge Invoices or Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices if the respective escrow deposits are insufficient to cover the short-pays.
16.11.1.1	Review of Counter-Party Eligibility
(1)	At any time, ERCOT may conduct a review to determine if a Counter-Party continues to satisfy all requirements set forth in Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants.  
(2)	ERCOT’s review under this Section may be triggered by notice of a change provided by the Counter-Party to ERCOT, information that ERCOT receives or discovers through other means, or ERCOT’s periodic review of Principals of Counter-Parties.  
(3)	As part of ERCOT’s review under this Section, ERCOT may conduct additional background checks, as described in Section 16.2.1.1, QSE Background Check Process, and Section 16.8.1.1, CRR Account Holder Background Check Process.  ERCOT will charge the Counter-Party a new background check fee for any necessary background check.  A Counter-Party’s failure to pay a background check fee by the deadline set by ERCOT constitutes a “Payment Breach” pursuant to Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants. 
(4)	If ERCOT conducts a review pursuant to this Section and determines that the Counter-Party may no longer satisfy a requirement set forth in Section 16, ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may consult with the Counter-Party to determine if the Counter-Party can provide additional information or take remedial action that would explain or resolve the deficiencies preliminarily identified by ERCOT in its review.
16.11.1.1.1	Failure to Maintain Eligibility
(1)	If ERCOT’s review of a Counter-Party pursuant to Section 16.2.1.1, QSE Background Check Process, or Section 16.8.1.1, CRR Account Holder Background Check Process, results in ERCOT determining that the Counter-Party no longer satisfies a requirement set forth in Section 16, Registration and Qualification of Market Participants, then ERCOT will notify the Counter-Party that such failure to comply with the ERCOT Protocols is a material breach under Section (8)(A)(2) of the Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (Section 22, Attachment A).  ERCOT will provide the Counter-Party with specific information concerning what is required to cure the material breach. 
(2)	If ERCOT determines, in its sole discretion, that continued participation of the Counter-Party would pose a risk that could immediately compromise the integrity of the ERCOT market during the 14-day cure period described in Section (8)(A)(2) of the Standard Form Market Participant Agreement, ERCOT may suspend the Counter-Party’s rights as a Market Participant upon the notification of the material breach.
16.11.2	[RESERVED]
16.11.3	Alternative Means of Satisfying ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements
(1)	A Counter-Party required to provide Financial Security under these Protocols may do so through one or more of the following means:
(a)	The Counter-Party may give an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit naming ERCOT as the beneficiary.  ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, reject the letter of credit if the issuer is unacceptable to ERCOT or if the conditions under which ERCOT may draw against the letter of credit are unacceptable to ERCOT.  
	The letter of credit must be given using the ERCOT Board-approved standard letter of credit form.
	All letters of credit must be drawn on a U.S. domestic bank or a U.S. domestic office of a foreign bank.
(iii)	Letters of credit must be issued by a bank or other financial institution that is acceptable to ERCOT, with a minimum rating of A- with S&P and Fitch and A3 with Moody’s.  No letters of credit will be accepted from banks which are rated below A-/A3 by one or more rating agencies.  If there are split ratings amongst rating agencies, ERCOT will use the lowest of different ratings within the same rating agency and amongst different rating agencies.  The ratings are defined as follows (if available): Long term issuer rating, Long term Senior Unsecured rating or Long Term Counterparty Risk Assessment (for Moody’s).  For U.S. offices of foreign banks, U.S. branch/office must have an acceptable rating on its own by at least one of the rating agencies.
(iv)	Letters of credit are subject to an overall limit per letter of credit issuer for all ERCOT Counter-Parties as determined below: 
If the issuing entity has	Then
Long-Term or Issuer Rating	Maximum letter of credit issuer limit as a percentage of Tangible Net Worth of issuer
S&P or Fitch	Moody’s	
AAA	Aaa	2.00%
AA+	Aa1	1.90%
AA	Aa2	1.80%
AA-	Aa3	1.70%
A+	A1	1.60%
A	A2	1.50%
A-	A3	1.40%
Below A-	Below A3	Not accepted
(A)	Each letter of credit issuer limit is also subject to an overall limit of $750 million per issuer.
(B)	Each Bank Business Day, ERCOT will issue a report of each letter of credit issuer detailing the issuer’s dollar amount of the letters of credit currently issued to ERCOT, the issuer’s computed aggregate concentration limit, and the unused capacity under that limit.  Market Participants may inquire of ERCOT about intra-day changes to the amount of posted letters of credit.
(C)	If a letter of credit issuer limit is breached, Counter-Parties utilizing that issuer will be notified and no new letters of credit from the issuer will be accepted while the limit remains breached.
(D)	After four months of the limit in breach, ERCOT will no longer accept new letters of credit or amendments to existing letters of credit from that issuer.
(E)	Letters of credit held as collateral at the time of an issuer limit breach will not be rejected.
(F)	ERCOT in its sole discretion may authorize exceptions to these limits.  
(G)	Revisions to the issuer limit calculation in this Section will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(b)	The Counter-Party may give a surety bond naming ERCOT as the beneficiary.  
(i)	The surety bond must be signed by a surety acceptable to ERCOT, in its sole discretion and must be in the form of ERCOT’s standard surety bond form approved by the ERCOT Board.  No modifications to the form are permitted.
(ii)	The surety bond must be issued by an insurance company with a minimum rating of A- with S&P and Fitch and A3 with Moody’s, if available.  No surety bonds will be accepted from insurance companies, which are rated below A-/A3 by one or more rating agencies.  If there are split ratings amongst rating agencies, ERCOT will use the lowest of different ratings within the same rating agency and amongst different rating agencies.
(iii)	Surety bonds are subject to a limit of $10 million per Counter-Party per insurer and an overall limit of $100 million per insurer for all ERCOT Counter-Parties.  This overall limit is aggregated for the entire corporate family in case of multiple insurance companies belonging to the same corporate family.
(iv)	The surety bond must be issued by an insurance company with a minimum financial size category of XII as determined by AM Best.
(c)	The Counter-Party may deposit Cash Collateral with ERCOT with the understanding that ERCOT may draw part or all of the deposited cash to satisfy any overdue payments owed by the Counter-Party to ERCOT.  The Cash Collateral shall be invested pursuant to the ERCOT Investment Corporate Standard and all interest received on Cash Collateral will be payable directly to the Counter-Party; provided, however, that any such arrangements may not restrict ERCOT’s immediate access to the cash.  
(i)	Interest on Cash Collateral will be calculated on a monthly basis, based on average daily balances of the Counter-Party Cash Collateral.  Interest is not paid on Cash Collateral balances held by ERCOT where, in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section 16.11.7, Release of Market Participant’s Financial Security Requirement, the Counter-Party’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement has been terminated and ERCOT has determined that no obligations remain owing or will become due and payable.
(ii)	On or before the 15th Bank Business Day of each month, ERCOT will credit each Counter-Party’s Cash Collateral account for the amount of interest calculated for Cash Collateral held by ERCOT for the prior month.
(iii)      In addition, ERCOT will provide a report containing details on how the interest amount was calculated for that month, which shall include, at a minimum, the daily principal amount of the Cash Collateral held from the Counter-Party and the imputed yield.
(iv)	ERCOT has a first priority security interest in all property delivered by the Counter-Party to ERCOT from time to time to meet the creditworthiness requirements, and that property secures all amounts owed by the Counter-Party to ERCOT.
16.11.4	Determination and Monitoring of Counter-Party Credit Exposure
16.11.4.1	Determination of Total Potential Exposure for a Counter-Party
(1)	A Counter-Party’s TPE is the sum of its “Total Potential Exposure Any” (TPEA) and TPES:
(a)	TPEA is the positive net exposure of the Counter-Party not included in TPES.
(b)	TPES is the positive net exposure of the Counter-Party for Future Credit Exposure (FCE) and the Independent Amount (IA).
(2)	For all Counter-Parties:
TPEA 	= 	Max [0, MCE, Max [0, ((1-TOA) * EAL q + TOA * EAL t + EAL a)]] + PUL
TPES	=	Max [0, FCE a] + IA
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
EAL q	$	Estimated Aggregate Liability for all QSEs that represents Load or generation—EAL for all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if at least one QSE represented by the Counter-Party represents either Load or generation.
EAL t	$	Estimated Aggregate Liability for all QSEs —EAL for all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation.
EAL a	$	Estimated Aggregate Liability for all CRR Account Holders—EAL for all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party.
PUL	$	Potential Uplift—Potential uplift to the Counter-Party, to the extent and in the proportion that the Counter-Party represents Entities to which an uplift of a short payment will be made pursuant to Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients.  It is calculated as the sum of: (a) Amounts expected to be uplifted within one year of the date of the calculation; and (b) the lesser of: (i) 25% of amounts expected to be uplifted beyond one year of the date of the calculation; or (ii) five years’ worth of uplift charges. 
FCE a	$	Future Credit Exposure for all CRR Account Holders—FCE for all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party.
MCE	$	Minimum Current Exposure—For each Counter-Party, ERCOT shall determine a Minimum Current Exposure (MCE) as follows:  

MCE = Max[RFAF * MAF * Max[{∑_e^ ▒〖∑_(i=1)^96▒  ∑_p^ ▒ 〗[L i, od, p * RTSPP i, od, p]/n}, {∑_e^ ▒  ∑_(i=1)^96▒  ∑_p^ ▒ [[[L i, od, p * T2  - G i, od, p * (1-NUCADJ) * T3] * RTSPP i, od, p] + [RTQQNET i, od, p * T5]]/n}, 
                      {∑_e^ ▒  ∑_(i=1)^96▒  ∑_p^ ▒ [G i, od, p * NUCADJ * T1 * RTSPP i, od, p]/n},
                      {∑_e^ ▒  ∑_(i=1)^96▒  ∑_p^ ▒ DARTNET i, od, p * T4/n}],
                      MAF * IMCE]

RTQQNET i, od, p = Max[ (RTQQES i, od, p, c - RTQQEP i, od, p, c), BTCF *       (RTQQES i, od, p, c – RTQQEP i, od, p, c)] * RTSPP i, od, p

DARTNET i, od, p  = DAM EOO Cleared i, od, p * DART i, od, p + DAM TPO Cleared i, od, p * DART i, od, p + DAM PTP Cleared i, od, p * DARTPTP i, od, p – DAM EOB Cleared i, od, p * DART i, od, p 
Where:
G i, od, p = 	Total Metered Generation at all Resource Nodes for the Counter-Party for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
L i, od, p = 	Total Adjusted Metered Load (AML) at all Load Zones for the Counter-Party for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
MAF = 	Market Adjustment Factor—Used to provide for the potential for overall price increases based on changes to ERCOT market rules or market conditions.  This factor shall not be set below 100%.  Revisions to this factor will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and the ERCOT Finance and Audit (F&A) Committee, and approved by the ERCOT Board.  Such revisions shall be implemented on the 45th calendar day following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.
NUCADJ = 	Net Unit Contingent Adjustment—To allow for situations where a generator may unintentionally or intentionally meet its requirement from the Real-Time Market (RTM)
RTQQNET i, od, p = Net QSE-to-QSE Energy Trades for the Counter-Party for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
RTQQES i, od, p, c = QSE Energy Trades for which the Counter-Party is the seller for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p with Counter-Party c
RTQQEP i, od, p, c = QSE Energy Trades for which the Counter-Party is the buyer for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p with Counter-Party c
BTCF =                Bilateral Trades Credit Factor
RTSPP i, od, p = 	Real-Time Settlement Point Price for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DARTNET i, od, p = Net DAM activities for the Counter-Party for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DART i, od, p = 	Day-Ahead - Real-Time Spread for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DAM EOB Cleared i, od, p = DAM Energy Only Bids Cleared for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DAM EOO Cleared i, od, p = DAM Energy Only Offers Cleared for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DAM TPO Cleared i, od, p = DAM Three-Part Offers Cleared for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DAM PTP Cleared i, od, p = DAM Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligations Cleared for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DARTPTP i, od, p =  Day-Ahead - Real-Time Spread for value of PTP Obligation for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
c = 	Bilateral Counter-Party 
cif =	Cap Interval Factor - Represents the historic largest percentage of System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP) intervals during a calendar day
e = 	Most recent n Operating Days for which RTM Initial Settlement Statements are available
i = 	Settlement Interval
n = 	Days used for averaging
nm =	Notional Multiplier
od = 	Operating Day
p = 	A Settlement Point
[NPRR1013 and NPRR1188:  Replace applicable portions of the variable “MCE” above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1013; or upon system implementation for NPRR1188:] 
MCE	$	Minimum Current Exposure—For each Counter-Party, ERCOT shall determine a Minimum Current Exposure (MCE) as follows:  

MCE = Max[RFAF * MAF * Max[{∑_e^ ▒〖∑_(i=1)^96▒  ∑_p^ ▒ 〗[L i, od, p * RTSPP i, od, p]/n}, {∑_e^ ▒  ∑_(i=1)^96▒  ∑_p^ ▒ [[[L i, od, p * T2  - G i, od, p * (1-NUCADJ) * T3] * RTSPP i, od, p] + [RTQQNET i, od, p * T5]]/n}, 
                      {∑_e^ ▒  ∑_(i=1)^96▒  ∑_p^ ▒ [G i, od, p * NUCADJ * T1 * RTSPP i, od, p]/n},
                      {{∑_e^ ▒  ∑_(i=1)^96▒  ∑_p^ ▒ DARTNET i, od, p * T4/n} +{∑_e^ ▒  ∑_(i=1)^96▒ DARTASONET i, od, c * T4/n}}],
                      MAF * IMCE]

RTQQNET i, od, p = Max[ (RTQQES i, od, p, c - RTQQEP i, od, p, c), BTCF *       (RTQQES i, od, p, c – RTQQEP i, od, p, c)] * RTSPP i, od, p

DARTNET i, od, p  = DAM EOO Cleared i, od, p * DART i, od, p + DAM TPO Cleared i, od, p * DART i, od, p + DAM PTP Cleared i, od, p * DARTPTP i, od, p – DAM EOB Cleared i, od, p * DART i, od, p 

DARTASONET i, od = DAM ASOO Cleared i, od * DARTMCPC i, od
Where:
G i, od, p = 	Total Net Metered Generation at all Resource Nodes, including Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) and Controllable Load Resources (CLRs) that are not Aggregate Load Resources (ALRs), for the Counter-Party for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
L i, od, p = 	Total Adjusted Metered Load (AML) at all Load Zones, excluding CLR Load of CLRs that are not ALRs, for the Counter-Party for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
MAF = 	Market Adjustment Factor—Used to provide for the potential for overall price increases based on changes to ERCOT market rules or market conditions.  This factor shall not be set below 100%.  Revisions to this factor will be recommended by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and the ERCOT Finance and Audit (F&A) Committee, and approved by the ERCOT Board.  Such revisions shall be implemented on the 45th calendar day following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.
NUCADJ = 	Net Unit Contingent Adjustment—To allow for situations where a generator may unintentionally or intentionally meet its requirement from the Real-Time Market (RTM)
RTQQNET i, od, p = Net QSE-to-QSE Energy Trades for the Counter-Party for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
RTQQES i, od, p, c = QSE Energy Trades for which the Counter-Party is the seller for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p with Counter-Party c
RTQQEP i, od, p, c = QSE Energy Trades for which the Counter-Party is the buyer for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p with Counter-Party c
DARTASONET i, od = Net DAM Ancillary Service Only Activities for interval i for Operating Day od 
DAM ASOO Cleared i, od = DAM Ancillary Service Only Offers Cleared in DAM for interval i for Operating Day od
DARTMCPC i, od = Day-Ahead – Real-Time MCPC Spread for interval i for Operating Day od
BTCF =                Bilateral Trades Credit Factor
RTSPP i, od, p = 	Real-Time Settlement Point Price for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DARTNET i, od, p = Net DAM Activities for the Counter-Party for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DART i, od, p = 	Day-Ahead - Real-Time Spread for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DAM EOB Cleared i, od, p = DAM Energy Only Bids and Energy Bid Curves Cleared for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DAM EOO Cleared i, od, p = DAM Energy Only Offers Cleared for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DAM TPO Cleared i, od, p = DAM Three-Part Offers Cleared for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DAM PTP Cleared i, od, p = DAM Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligations Cleared for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
DARTPTP i, od, p =  Day-Ahead - Real-Time Spread for value of PTP Obligation for interval i for Operating Day od at Settlement Point p
c = 	Bilateral Counter-Party 
cif =	Cap Interval Factor - Represents the historic largest percentage of System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP) intervals during a calendar day
e = 	Most recent n Operating Days for which RTM Initial Settlement Statements are available
i = 	Settlement Interval
n = 	Days used for averaging
nm =	Notional Multiplier
od = 	Operating Day
p = 	A Settlement Point


IMCE	$	Initial Minimum Current Exposure 

IMCE =   	TOA * (SWCAP * nm * cif%)
 
TOA	None	Trade-Only Activity—Counter-Party that does not represent either a Load or a generation QSE.  Set to “0” if Counter-Party represents a QSE that has an association with a Load Serving Entity (LSE) or a Resource Entity, or if Counter-Party does not represent any QSE; otherwise set to 1.
q	None	QSEs represented by Counter-Party.
a	None	CRR Account Holders represented by Counter-Party.
IA	$	Independent Amount—The amount required to be posted as defined in Section 16.16.1, Counter-Party Criteria.
RFAF	None	Real-Time Forward Adjustment Factor—The adjustment factor for RTM-related forward exposure as defined in Section 16.11.4.3.3, Forward Adjustment Factors.
The above parameters are defined as follows: 
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
nm	None	50
cif	Percentage	9%
NUCADJ	Percentage	Minimum value of 20%.
T1	Days	2
T2	Days	5
T3	Days	5
T4	Days	1
T5	Days	For a Counter-Party that represents Load this value is equal to 5, otherwise this value is equal to 2.
BTCF	Percentage	80%
n	Days	14
*  The current value for the parameters referenced in this table above will be recommended by TAC and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
(3)	If ERCOT, in its sole discretion, determines that the TPEA or the TPES for a Counter-Party calculated under paragraphs (1) or (2) above does not adequately match the financial risk created by that Counter-Party’s activities under these Protocols, then ERCOT may set a different TPEA or TPES for that Counter-Party.  ERCOT shall, to the extent practical, give to the Counter-Party the information used to determine that different TPEA or TPES.  ERCOT shall provide written or electronic Notice to the Counter-Party of the basis for ERCOT’s assessment of the Counter-Party’s financial risk and the resulting creditworthiness requirements.
(4)	ERCOT shall monitor and calculate each Counter-Party’s TPEA and TPES daily.
16.11.4.2	Determination of Counter-Party Initial Estimated Liability
(1)	For each Counter-Party, except those Counter-Parties that are only CRR Account Holders, ERCOT shall determine an Initial Estimated Liability (IEL) for purposes of Section 16.11.3, Alternative Means of Satisfying ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements.
(2)	For a Counter-Party that has all its QSEs representing only LSEs, ERCOT shall calculate the IEL using the following formula: 
IEL = DEL * Max [0.2, RTEFL] * RTAEP * (M1 + M2)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
IEL	$	Initial Estimated LiabilityThe Counter-Party’s Initial Estimated Liability.
DEL	MWh	Daily Estimated LoadThe Counter-Party’s estimated average daily Load as determined by ERCOT based on information provided by the Counter-Party. 
RTEFL	none	Real-Time Energy Factor for LoadThe ratio of the Counter-Party’s estimated energy purchases in the RTM as determined by ERCOT based on information provided by the Counter-Party, to the Counter-Party’s Daily Estimated Load.
RTAEP	$/MWh	Real-Time Average Energy PriceAverage Settlement Point Price for the “ERCOT 345” as defined in Section 3.5.2.5, ERCOT Hub Average 345 kV Hub (ERCOT 345), based upon the previous seven days’ average Real-Time Settlement Point Prices. 
(3)	For a Counter-Party that has all its QSEs representing only Resources, ERCOT shall calculate the IEL using the following formula: 
IEL	=	DEG * Max [0.2, RTEFG] * RTAEP * (M1 + M2)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
IEL	$	Initial Estimated LiabilityThe Counter-Party’s Initial Estimated Liability.
DEG	MWh	Daily Estimated GenerationThe Counter-Party’s estimated average daily generation as determined by ERCOT based on information provided by the Counter-Party.
RTEFG	none	Real-Time Energy Factor for GenerationThe ratio of the Counter-Party’s QSE to QSE estimated energy sales as determined by ERCOT based on information provided by the Counter-Party, to the Counter-Party’s Daily Estimated Generation.
RTAEP	$/MWh	Real-Time Average Energy PriceAverage Settlement Point Price for the “ERCOT 345” as defined in Section 3.5.2.5 based upon the previous seven days average Real-Time Settlement Point Prices.
(4)	For a Counter-Party that has QSEs representing both LSE and Resources, ERCOT shall calculate the Counter-Party’s IEL using the following formula:
IEL	=	DEL * Max [0.1, RTEFL] * RTAEP * (M1 + M2) + DEG * Max [0.1, RTEFG] * RTAEP * (M1 + M2)
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Description
IEL	$	Initial Estimated LiabilityThe Counter-Party’s Initial Estimated Liability.
DEL	MWh	Daily Estimated LoadThe Counter-Party’s estimated average daily Load as determined by ERCOT based on information provided by the Counter-Party.
DEG	MWh	Daily Estimated GenerationThe Counter-Party’s estimated average daily generation as determined by ERCOT based on information provided by the Counter-Party.
RTEFL	none	Real-Time Energy Factor for LoadThe ratio of the Counter-Party’s estimated energy purchases in the RTM as determined by ERCOT based on information provided by the Counter-Party, to the Counter-Party’s Daily Estimated Load.
RTAEP	$/MWh	Real-Time Average Energy PriceAverage Settlement Point Price for the “ERCOT 345” as defined in Section 3.5.2.5 based upon the previous seven days’ average Real-Time Settlement Point Prices.
RTEFG	none	Real-Time Energy Factor for Generation—The ratio of the Counter-Party’s QSE to QSE estimated energy sales as determined by ERCOT, based on information provided by the Counter-Party, to the Counter-Party’s Daily Estimated Generation.
(5)	For a Counter-Party that has all its QSEs representing neither Load nor generation, and that is not representing a CRR Account Holder, the IEL is equal to IMCE as defined in paragraph (2) of Section 16.11.4.1, Determination of Total Potential Exposure for a Counter-Party.
(6)	For a Counter-Party that is only a CRR Account Holder and is not a QSE, the IEL is zero.
16.11.4.3	Determination of Counter-Party Estimated Aggregate Liability
(1)	After a Counter-Party commences activity in ERCOT markets, ERCOT shall monitor and calculate the Counter-Party’s EAL based on the formulas below.  
EAL q =	Max [IEL during the first 40-day period only beginning on the date that the Counter-Party commences activity in ERCOT markets, RFAF * Max {RTLE during the previous lrq days}, RTLF] + DFAF * DALE + Max [RTLCNS, Max {URTA during the previous lrq days}] + OUT q + ILE q
EAL t =	Max [RFAF * Max {RTLE during the previous lrt days}, RTLF] + DFAF * DALE + Max [RTLCNS, Max {URTA during the previous lrt days}] + OUT t 
EAL a =	OUT a
ERCOT may adjust the number of days used in determining the highest RTLE and/or URTA, and/or to exclude specific Operating Days to calculate RTLE, URTA, OUT, or DALE.
The above variables are defined as follows: 
Variable	Unit	Description
EAL q	$	Estimated Aggregate Liability for all the QSEs represented by a Counter-Party if at least one QSE represented by the Counter-Party represents either Load or generation.
EAL t	$	Estimated Aggregate Liability for all the QSEs represented by a Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation.
EAL a	$	Estimated Aggregate Liability for all the CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party.
IEL	$	Initial Estimated Liability for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if at least one QSE represented by the Counter-Party represents either Load or generation as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Section 16.11.4.2, Determination of Counter-Party Initial Estimated Liability.
q		QSEs represented by Counter-Party.
t		QSEs represented by a Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation.
a		CRR Account Holders represented by Counter-Party.
RTLE	$	Real-Time Liability Extrapolated—M1 multiplied by the sum of the net amount, with zero substituted for missing values, due to or from ERCOT by the Counter-Party in the 14 most recent Operating Days for which RTM Initial Statements are produced for Counter-Parties according to the ERCOT Settlement Calendar divided by 14.
URTA	$	Unbilled Real-Time Amount—M2 multiplied by the sum of the net amount, with zero substituted for missing values, due to or from ERCOT by the Counter-Party in the 14 most recent Operating Days for which RTM Initial Statements are produced for Counter-Parties according to the ERCOT Settlement Calendar divided by 14.
RTL	$	Real-Time Liability—The estimated or settled amounts due to or from ERCOT due to activities in the RTM for an Operating Day, as defined in Section 16.11.4.3.2, Real-Time Liability Estimate.
RTLCNS	$	Real-Time Liability Completed and Not Settled—For each Operating Day that is completed but not settled, ERCOT shall calculate RTL adjusted up by rtlcu% if there is a net amount due to ERCOT or adjusted down by rtlcd% if there is a net amount due to the QSE. 

RTLCNS = Sum of Max RTL(rtlcu% * RTL, rtlcd% * RTL) for all completed and not settled Operating Days

Where:

rtlcu =	Real-Time Liability Markup
rtlcd =	Real-Time Liability Markdown
RTLF	$	Real-Time Liability Forward—rtlfp% of the sum of estimated RTL from the most recent seven Operating Days.   

RTLF = rtlf% of the Sum of Max RTL(rtlcu% * RTL, rtlcd% * RTL) for the most recent seven Operating Days
Where:

rtlfp =	Real-Time Liability Forward
OUT q	$	Outstanding Unpaid Transactions—Outstanding unpaid transactions for all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party, which include (a) outstanding Invoices to the Counter-Party; (b) estimated unbilled items to the Counter-Party, to the extent not adequately accommodated in the RTLE calculation (including resettlements and other known liabilities); and (c) estimated CRR Auction revenue available for distribution for Operating Days in the previous two months, to the extent not invoiced to the Counter-Party.  Invoices will not be considered outstanding for purposes of this calculation the Business Day after that Invoice payment is received. 
OUT q = OIA q + UDAA q + UFA q + UTA q + CARD

Where:

OIA q =	Outstanding Invoice Amounts for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party – Sum of any outstanding Real-Time and Day-Ahead unpaid invoices issued to the Counter-Party, including but not limited to CRR Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) Invoices, CRR Balancing Account Invoices, Default Uplift Invoices, Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices, and other miscellaneous Invoices.  Also included are the amounts or portions of Invoices due to the Counter-Party that have been short-paid as a result of a default or non-payment of Invoices due to ERCOT by another Counter-Party.
UDAA q =	Unbilled Day-Ahead Amounts for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party – Sum of DAL for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party for all Operating Days for which a DAM Statement is not generated.
UFA q =	Unbilled Final Amounts for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party – Unbilled final extrapolated days (ufd) multiplied by the sum of the net amount due to or from ERCOT for all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party for Operating Days for which RTM Final Statements were generated in the 21 most recent calendar days, divided by the number of Operating Days for which RTM Final Settlement Statements were generated for the Counter-Party in the 21 most recent calendar days.  
UTA q =	Unbilled True-Up Amounts for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party – Unbilled true-up extrapolated days (utd) multiplied by the sum of the net amount due to or from ERCOT by the Counter-Party for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party for Operating Days for which RTM True-Up Statements were generated in the 21 most recent calendar days, divided by the number of Operating Days for which RTM True-Up Settlement Statements were generated for the Counter-Party in the 21 most recent calendar days.  
CARD =	CRR Auction Revenue Distribution for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party – Estimate of the Counter-Party’s unpaid allocation of CRR Auction revenues that have already been collected but have not been paid out to all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party.  CRR Auction revenues that have been earned but not billed are distributed based on the following Load Ratio Shares (LRSs): (a) Zonal LRS applied to revenues from CRRs cleared and have source and sink points located within a 2003 ERCOT Congestion Management Zone (CMZ), and (b) ERCOT-wide LRS applied to all other CRR Auction revenues.  The LRS will be based on the latest completed operating month for which LRS are available.
DAL	$	Day-Ahead Liability—The estimated or settled amounts due to or from ERCOT due to activities in the DAM for an Operating Day, as defined in Section 16.11.4.3.1, Day-Ahead Liability Estimate. 
OUT t	$	Outstanding Unpaid Transactions—Outstanding unpaid transactions for all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation, which include (a) outstanding Invoices to the Counter-Party; (b) estimated unbilled items to the Counter-Party, to the extent not adequately accommodated in the RTLE calculation (including resettlements and other known liabilities).

OUT t = OIA t + UDAA t + UFA t + UTA t

Where:

OIA t =	Outstanding Invoice Amounts for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation – Sum of any outstanding Real-Time and Day-Ahead unpaid Invoices issued to the Counter-Party,  including but not limited to CRR Balancing Account Invoices, Default Uplift Invoices and other miscellaneous Invoices.  Also included are the amounts or portions of invoices due to the Counter-Party that have been short-paid as a result of a Default or non-payment of invoices due to ERCOT by another Counter-Party.
UDAA t =	Unbilled Day-Ahead Amounts for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation – Sum of DAL for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party for all Operating Days for which DAM Statement is not generated.
UFA t =	Unbilled Final Amounts for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation – ufd multiplied by the sum of the net amount due to or from ERCOT for all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party for Operating Days for which RTM Final Statements were generated in the 21 most recent calendar days, divided by the number of Operating Days for which RTM Final Settlement Statements were generated for the Counter-Party in the 21 most recent calendar days.  
UTA t =	Unbilled True-Up Amounts for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation – utd multiplied by the sum of the net amount due to or from ERCOT by the Counter-Party for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party for Operating Days for which RTM True-Up Statements were generated in the 21 most recent calendar days, divided by the number of Operating Days for which RTM True-Up Settlement Statements were generated for the Counter-Party in the 21 most recent calendar days.  
OUT a	$	Outstanding Unpaid Transactions for all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party—Outstanding, unpaid transactions of all the CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party, which include outstanding Invoices to the Counter-Party.  Invoices will not be considered outstanding for purposes of this calculation the Business Day after that Invoice payment is received. 

OUT a = OIA a + UDAA a 

Where:

OIA a =	Outstanding Invoice Amounts for all the CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party – Sum of any outstanding Real-Time and Day-Ahead unpaid Invoices issued to the Counter-Party including but not limited to CRR Balancing Account Invoices, Default Uplift Invoices and other miscellaneous Invoices.  Also included are the amounts or portions of Invoices due to the Counter-Party that have been short-paid as a result of a default or non-payment of Invoices due to ERCOT by another Counter-Party.
UDAA a =	Unbilled Day-Ahead Amounts for all the CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party – Sum of DAL of all the CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party for all Operating Days for which DAM Statement is not generated.
ILE q	$	Incremental Load Exposure—In the event of a Mass Transition necessitated by the default of a Counter-Party representing a QSE associated with an LSE, ERCOT may adjust the TPE of the Counter-Parties representing QSEs that are qualified as Providers of Last Resort (POLRs) to reflect the estimated Incremental Load Exposure (ILE) resulting from the Mass Transition.  The adjustment will be based on the POLR’s pro rata share of the defaulting Counter-Party’s RTLE, based on the total estimated Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) to be transitioned.  ERCOT will communicate any such adjustment to the Authorized Representative of each Counter-Party who is a POLR within 24 hours of the initiation of a Mass Transition.  The ILE adjustment will remain in place no more than the number of days necessary to effect a Mass Transition for the defaulting Counter-Party, after which time the incremental exposure will be fully reflected in the Counter-Party’s unadjusted TPE.  
DALE	$	Average Daily Day-Ahead Liability Extrapolated—M1 multiplied by the sum of the net amount, with zero substituted for missing values, due to or from ERCOT by the Counter-Party in the seven most recent Operating Days for which DAM Settlement Statements are produced for Counter-Parties according to the ERCOT Settlement Calendar divided by seven.
M1		M1 = M1a + M1b—Multiplier for DALE and RTLE.  Provides for forward risk during a Counter-Party termination upon default based upon the sum of the time period required for any termination upon default (M1a) and the time period required for a Mass Transition only (M1b).  The M1a component is applicable to all Counter-Parties.  The M1b component is applicable only to Counter-Parties representing any QSE associated with a LSE.

M1a =    	Time period required for any termination from an Operating Day.  
	M1a is comprised of a fixed value (M1d), representing days from issuance of a collateral call to termination, and a calendar day-specific variable value.  For any Operating Day, M1a is equal to the total number of forward calendar days encompassed by starting on the Operating Day, including M1d Bank Business Days forward, and adding any ERCOT holidays that are also Bank Business Days.
M1b =	Weighted average transition days = Min(B, (2 + Max(1, (u+1)/2))*(1-DF)), rounded up to whole days 
Where: 	
u = 	(ESIn/r) Unscaled number of days to transition.  
B =	Benchmark value.  Used to establish a maximum M1 value.
ESIn =	Number of ESI IDs associated with an individual Counter-Party.  This value will be updated no less often than annually by ERCOT and updated values communicated to individual Counter-Parties.  Counter-Parties entering the market will provide an estimated number of ESI IDs for use during their first six months of market activity.  Subsequent to this time, the value for that Counter-Party shall be updated by ERCOT concurrently with other Counter-Parties with QSEs representing an LSE.
r =	Assumed ESI ID daily transition rate.
DF =	Discount Factor applied to M1b if the Counter-Party meets other creditworthiness standards that may be developed and approved by TAC and the ERCOT Board.

M2		Multiplier for URTA.
RFAF	None	Real-Time Forward Adjustment Factor—The adjustment factor for RTM-related forward exposure as defined in Section 16.11.4.3.3, Forward Adjustment Factors.
DFAF	None	Day-Ahead Forward Adjustment Factor—The adjustment factor for DAM-related forward exposure as defined in Section 16.11.4.3.3.
lrq	Days	Look-back period for RTM to find the maximum of RTLE or URTA for all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if any of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation.
lrt	Days	Look-back period for RTM to find the maximum of RTLE or URTA for all QSEs represented by the Counter-Party if none of the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party represent either Load or generation.

The above parameters are defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
rtlcu	Percentage	110%
rtlcd	Percentage	90% 
rtlfp	Percentage	150% 
ufd	Days	55
utd	Days	180
M1d	Days	8
B	Days	8
r	none	100,000 per day
DF	Percentage	0
M2	Days	9
lrq	Days	40
lrt	Days	20
*  The current value for the parameters referenced in this table above will be recommended by TAC and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
16.11.4.3.1	Day-Ahead Liability Estimate
(1)	ERCOT shall estimate Day-Ahead Liability (DAL) for an Operating Day as the sum of estimates for the following DAM Settlement charges and payments:
(a)	Section 4.6.2.1, Day-Ahead Energy Payment;
(b)	Section 4.6.2.2, Day-Ahead Energy Charge;
(c)	Section 4.6.3, Settlement for PTP Obligations Bought in DAM;
(d)	Section 4.6.4.1.1, Regulation Up Service Payment;
(e)	Section 4.6.4.1.2, Regulation Down Service Payment;
(f)	Section 4.6.4.1.3, Responsive Reserve Service Payment;
(g)	Section 4.6.4.1.4, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Payment;
(h)	Section 4.6.4.1.5, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Payment;
(i)	Section 4.6.4.2.1, Regulation Up Service Charge;
(j)	Section 4.6.4.2.2, Regulation Down Service Charge;
(k)	Section 4.6.4.2.3, Responsive Reserve Service Charge;
(l)	Section 4.6.4.2.4, Non-Spinning Reserve Service Charge;
(m)	Section 4.6.4.2.5, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Charge;
(n)	Section 7.9.1.1, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in DAM;
(o)	Section 7.9.1.2, Payments for PTP Options Settled in DAM;
(p)	Section 7.9.1.5, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations with Refund Settled in DAM; and
(q)	Section 7.9.1.6, Payments for PTP Options with Refund Settled in DAM.
16.11.4.3.2	Real-Time Liability Estimate
(1)	ERCOT shall estimate RTL for an Operating Day as the sum of estimates for the following RTM Settlement charges and payments:
(a)	Section 6.6.3.1, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Resource Node, using Real-Time Metered Generation (RTMG) as generation estimate; 
[NPRR1188:  Replace item (a) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(a)	Section 6.6.3.1, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Resource Node, using Real-Time Net Metered Generation (RTMG) including CLRs that are not ALRs as generation estimate;
(b)	Section 6.6.3.2, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Load Zone, using 14-day or seven-day-old LRS for Load estimate;
[NPRR829:  Replace item (b) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(b)	Section 6.6.3.2, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Load Zone, using 14-day or seven-day-old LRS for Load estimate and Real-Time telemetry of net generation as the generation estimate;
(c)	Section 6.6.3.3, Real-Time Energy Imbalance Payment or Charge at a Hub;
(d)	Section 6.6.3.4, Real-Time Energy Payment for DC Tie Import;
(e)	Section 6.6.3.8, Real-Time Payment or Charge for Energy from a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) or a Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), using the Real-Time telemetry, if provided, of net generation as the outflow estimate and the Real-Time Price for each SODG or SOTG site;
[NPRR995 and NPRR1077:  Replace applicable portions of item (e) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(e)	Section 6.6.3.8, Real-Time Payment or Charge for Energy from a Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG), Settlement Only Transmission Generator (SOTG), Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS), or Settlement Only Transmission Energy Storage System (SOTESS), using the Real-Time telemetry of net generation as the outflow estimate and the Real-Time Price for each SODG, SOTG, SODESS, or SOTESS site;
(f)	Section 6.6.4, Real-Time Congestion Payment or Charge for Self-Schedules; and
[NPRR1013:  Insert items (g)-(k) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly:] 
(g)	Section 6.7.5.1, Regulation Up Payments and Charges; 
(h)	Section 6.7.5.2, Regulation Down Payments and Charges; 
(i)	Section 6.7.5.3, Responsive Reserve Payments and Charges; 
(j)	Section 6.7.5.4, Non-Spinning Reserve Payments and Charges; and
(k)	Section 6.7.5.5, ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Payments and Charges.
(g)	Section 7.9.2.1, Payments and Charges for PTP Obligations Settled in Real-Time.
16.11.4.3.3	Forward Adjustment Factors
(1)	Forward adjustment factors are used to adjust TPEA based on electricity futures prices.
(a)	Futures Weekly Average Price (FWAP): 
		FWAPw = (1/nfwh) * ∑_(fwh=1)^nfwh▒[FHP fwh, rhub]
(b)	Projected Real-Time Forward Average Price (PRFAP): 
		PRFAP = ∑_(w=1)^3▒[RWF w * FWAP w]
(c)	Projected Day-Ahead Forward Average Price (PDFAP): 
PDFAP = ∑_(w=1)^3▒[DWF w * FWAP w]
(d)	Historic Real-Time Settled Average Price (HRSAP): 
		HRSAP = (1/nhrh) * ∑_(hrh=1)^nhrh▒∑_(i=1)^4▒[RTSPP hrh, i, rhub]/4
(e)	Historic Day-Ahead Settled Average Price (HDSAP): 
		HDSAP = (1/nhdh) * ∑_(hdh=1)^nhdh▒[DASPP hdh, rhub]
(f)	Real-Time Forward Adjustment Factor (RFAF): 
	RFAF = PRFAP/HRSAP
(g)	Day-Ahead Forward Adjustment Factor (DFAF):
	DFAF = PDFAP/HDSAP 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
PRFAP	$/MWh	Projected Real-Time Forward Average PriceThe average RTM price per MWh projected forward based on futures market prices.
PDFAP	$/MWh	Projected Day-Ahead Forward Average PriceThe average DAM price per MWh projected forward based on futures market prices.
w	None	One of the three consecutive forward weeks beginning with the current Operating Day.
RWFw	None	Real-Time Weight Factor for forward week w such that 
∑_(w=1)^3▒〖RWF_w=1〗

DWFw	None	Day-Ahead Weight Factor for forward week w such that
 ∑_(w=1)^3▒〖DWF_w=1〗
fwh	None	Forward Week HourAn Operating Hour from a forward week w.
nfwh	None	Number of Forward Week HoursTotal number of hours in a forward week.
rhub	None	Reference HubThe electrical Hub used as a reference for futures mark-to-market prices.
FWAPw	$/MWh	Futures Weekly Average Price for week wThe average futures price for the hours of the forward week w.
FHP fwh, rhub	$/MWh	Futures Hourly Price of the Reference Hub rhub for Forward Week Hour fwhThe most recent mark-to-market price available for an electricity futures product that is applicable to the forward week hour fwh for the reference Hub rhub.
ERCOT will disclose to the market the source of its selected electricity futures product(s) used for FHP.  In the event that an ERCOT-selected electricity futures product(s) becomes unavailable or unsuitable for the intended purpose, ERCOT will select a substitute electricity futures product(s).  ERCOT shall set the value of RFAF to 1 and DFAF to 1, and provide Notice of this change as soon as practicable, until such time as a substitute electricity futures product(s) is selected and implemented by ERCOT.  ERCOT will notify Market Participants of any change in the electricity futures product(s) at least 60 days prior to the beginning of their use.  In the event that 60 days’ Notice cannot be given, ERCOT will notify Market Participants as soon as practicable prior to use.
hrh	None	Historic Real-Time HourAn Operating Hour that is settled and used in the most recent RTLE calculation.
nhrh	None	Number of Historic Real-Time HoursTotal number of historic Real-Time hours that are settled and used in the most recent RTLE calculation.
i	None	Settlement IntervalA 15-minute interval that is part of an Operating Hour.
RTSPPhrh, i, rhub 	$/MWh	Real-Time Settlement Point Price for ith interval that is part of Operating Hour hrh for the Settlement Point rhub.
HRSAP	$/MWh	Historic Real-Time Settled Average PriceThe average historic Real-Time settled price.
HDSAP	$/MWh	Historic Day-Ahead Settled Average PriceThe average historic Day-Ahead settled price.
hdh	None	Historic Day-Ahead HourAn Operating Hour that is settled and used in the most recent DALE calculation.
nhdh	None	Number of Historic Day-Ahead HoursTotal number of historic day-ahead hours that are settled and used in the most recent DALE calculation.
DASPPhrh, rhub 	$/MWh	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Price for Operating Hour hdh for the Settlement Point rhub.
RFAF	None	Real-Time Forward Adjustment Factor.
DFAF	None	Day-Ahead Forward Adjustment Factor.
The above parameters are defined as follows: 
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
rhub	None	ERCOT North Hub
RWF1	None	1/3
RWF2	None	1/3
RWF3	None	1/3
DWF1	None	1/3
DWF2	None	1/3
DWF3	None	1/3
*  The current value for the parameters referenced in the table above will be recommended by TAC and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
16.11.4.4	[RESERVED]
16.11.4.5	Determination of the Counter-Party Future Credit Exposure
(1)	ERCOT shall monitor and calculate the Counter-Party’s FCE for all the CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT. 
FCE a  =  FCEOBL a + FCEOPT a 

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
FCE a	$	Future Credit Exposure for all CRRs held by all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party.
FCEOBL a	$	Future Credit Exposure for PTP Obligations for all PTP Obligations held by all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT, for all Operating Days in the current operating month, Prompt Month, and all Forward Months. 
FCEOPT a	$	Future Credit Exposure for PTP Options for all PTP Options held by all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT, for all Operating Days remaining in the current operating month and Prompt Month. 
a	none	All CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party.
(2)	The Counter-Party’s FCE for PTP Obligations (FCEOBL) held by all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT are calculated as follows:
FCEOBL a 	=	∑m [(∑h ∑j, k NAOBLMW m, h, (j, k)) * (-Min(0, PWA ci100, m, PWACP m))]

PWACP m 	=	∑h ∑j, k [NAOBLMW m, h, (j, k) * EACP m, h, (j, k)] / ∑h ∑j, k [NAOBLMW m, h, (j, k)]

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
FCEOBL a	$	Future Credit Exposure for PTP Obligations for all PTP Obligations held by all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT for all Operating Days in the current operating month, Prompt Month, and all Forward Months.
NAOBLMW m, h, (j, k)	MW	Net Awarded PTP ObligationsNet awarded PTP Obligations with the source j and sink k for the hour h and month m owned by all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT for all Operating Days in the current operating month, Prompt Month, and Forward Months.
PWA ci100, m	$/MW per hour	Portfolio Weighted AdderThe portfolio weighted adder calculated as the 100th percentile of a volume weighted average rolling consecutive DAM settled price for all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT based on volumes owned for the month m, over a period that represents a month for each product type (18 days for 5*16, 8 days for 2*16, 28 days for 7*8).  The look-back period for DAM settled prices shall be the lesser of January 1, 2011 to the current time, and the current time minus three years.  If historical Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices (DASPPs) are not available for a Settlement Point for one or more Operating Days, ERCOT will designate a proxy Settlement Point for this purpose, and the DASPPs of the proxy Settlement Point of corresponding Operating Days are used.  
PWACP m	$/MW per hour	Portfolio Weighted Auction Clearing PriceThe portfolio weighted auction clearing price calculated as the volume weighted auction clearing price for all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT based on the most recent auction clearing price for the month m and volumes owned for the month m. 
EACP m, h, (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Effective Auction Clearing Price— The auction clearing price with the source j and sink k for the hour h, and month m. 
For each CRR PTP Obligation, this value is equal to the auction clearing price of an awarded CRR selected as follows: 
(a)	Awarded CRRs with the source j and sink k containing hour h and operating month m are selected from the set of unexpired awarded PTP Obligations.  If no awarded CRRs are found the EACP value is zero.
(b)	If (a) results in more than one awarded CRR, awarded CRRs with the most recent award date are selected.
(c)	If (b) results in more than one awarded CRR, then the awarded CRR with the lowest auction clearing price is selected.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
m	none	An operating month.
h	none	An Operating Hour.
a	none	All CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party.
ci100	none	100th percentile confidence interval.
(3)	The FCE for PTP Options (FCEOPT) held by all the CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT are calculated as follows:
FCEOPT a 	=	- ∑m ∑h ∑j, k [(NAOPTMW m, h, (j, k)) * Max(0, A ci99, ctou, (j, k))]

The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
FCEOPT a	$	Future Credit Exposure for PTP OptionsFCE for all PTP Options held by all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT for all Operating Days remaining in the current operating month and Prompt Month.  
A ci99, ctou, (j, k)	$/MW per hour	Path Specific DAM Based AdderPath specific DAM based adder calculated as 99th percentile of the average rolling consecutive DAM settled price for the CRR source j and sink k over a period that represents a month for each CRR Time Of Use (TOU) ctou product type (18 days for 5*16, 8 days for 2*16, 28 days for 7*8).  The look-back period for DAM settled prices shall be the lesser of January 1, 2011 to the current time, and the current time minus three years.  If historical DASPPs are not available for a Settlement Point for one or more Operating Days, ERCOT will designate a proxy Settlement Point for this purpose, and the DASPPs of the proxy Settlement Point of corresponding Operating Days are used.
NAOPTMW m, h, (j, k)	MW	Net Awarded PTP OptionsNet awarded PTP Options with the source j and sink k for the hour h and month m owned by all CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party as CRR Owner of record at ERCOT for remaining Operating Days in the current operating month, and Prompt Month.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
m	none	An operating month.
ctou	none	CRR Time Of Use block.
h	none	An Operating Hour.
a	none	All CRR Account Holders represented by the Counter-Party.
ci99	none	99th percentile confidence interval.
16.11.4.6	Determination of Counter-Party Available Credit Limits 
(1) 	ERCOT shall calculate an Available Credit Limit for the CRR Auction (ACLC) and an Available Credit Limit for the DAM (ACLD) as follows:
(a)	ACLC for each Counter-Party equal to the maximum of zero and the net of its:
(i)	Secured Financial Security; minus 
(ii)	(1+ACLIRF) * TPES; minus
(iii)	Net Positive Exposure of approved CRR Bilateral Trades; minus
(iv)	Maximum of: 
(A)	Zero; and 
(B)	((1+ACLIRF) * TPEA).
(b)	ACLD for each Counter-Party equal to the maximum of zero and its:
(i)	Remainder Collateral; minus
(ii)	ACLIRF * TPES; minus
(iii)	(1+ACLIRF) * TPEA.
(c)	If all or part of a Counter-Party’s ACLC and/or ACLD cannot be computed due to an ERCOT computer system failure or Market Suspension, then ERCOT shall estimate ACLC and/or ACLD for that Counter-Party and provide the information used to determine such estimates to that Counter-Party.  If  all or part of ACLC and/or ACLD cannot be estimated with current data, then the most recently available values shall be used to determine the Counter-Party’s ACLC and/or ACLD.  ERCOT shall provide electronic Notice, as soon as practicable, to Counter-Parties when utilizing this methodology, and shall further provide electronic Notice to Counter-Parties when current data is restored and available to calculate ACLC and ACLD under paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
The above parameters are defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value*
ACLIRF	Percentage	10% — ACL Incremental Risk Factor.
*  The current value for the parameters referenced in this table above will be recommended by TAC and approved by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall update parameter values on the first day of the month following ERCOT Board approval unless otherwise directed by the ERCOT Board.  ERCOT shall provide a Market Notice prior to implementation of a revised parameter value.
16.11.4.6.1	Credit Requirements for CRR Auction Participation
(1)	As a requirement for participation in any CRR Auction, each Counter-Party participating in any CRR Auction, including those as permitted by Sections 16.11.6.1.4, Repossession of CRRs by ERCOT, and 16.11.6.1.5, Declaration of Forfeit of CRRs, shall communicate to ERCOT the credit limit it would like to establish for the CRR Auction prior to the close of the CRR bid submission window. 
(2)	Consistent with paragraph (4)(c)(ii) of Section 7.5.1, Nature and Timing, ERCOT shall only modify the credit limit date in paragraph (1) above under a condition in which an ERCOT computer system failure causes Counter-Parties to be delayed or unable in submitting their credit limits for the CRR Auction and ERCOT determines that the successful execution of the CRR Auction would be jeopardized without such modification.  In such an event, ERCOT will issue a Market Notice advising of the revised credit limit date and its cause.
(3)	ERCOT shall assign the ACL locked for CRR Auction for each Counter-Party participating in any CRR Auction as the lower of the Counter-Party’s:
(a)	Requested credit limit, as described in paragraph (1) above; 
(b)	ACLC, calculated in accordance with paragraph (1)(a) of Section 16.11.4.6, Determination of Counter-Party Available Credit Limits, at the time of the closure of the CRR bid submission window; or
(c)	Pre-auction screening credit exposure amount, calculated in accordance with paragraph (2) of Section 7.5.5.3, Auction Process. 
(4)	ERCOT shall impose a credit limit in awarding bids and offers in the CRR Auction as described in Section 7.5.5.3. 
16.11.4.6.2	Credit Requirements for DAM Participation
(1)	ERCOT shall impose a credit limit of the ACLD on each Counter-Party participating in the DAM.
(2)	ERCOT shall impose the credit limit for DAM participation calculated in paragraph (1) above on the Counter-Party’s QSEs and all Subordinate QSEs combined participation in the DAM as described in Section 4.4.10, Credit Requirement for DAM Bids and Offers.
(3)	A new credit limit will be sent to each Counter-Party participating in the DAM daily.
16.11.4.7	Credit Monitoring and Management Reports
(1)	ERCOT shall post twice each Business Day on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area each active Counter-Party’s credit monitoring and management related reports as listed below.  The first posting shall be made by 1200 and the second posting shall be made as close as reasonably possible to the close of the Business Day but no later than 2350.  The reports listed in items (f) and (g) below are not required to be included in both first and second posting if the Counter-Party has no active CRR ownership. The reports listed in items (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) below are not required to be included in the second post if there are no changes to the underlying data.  ERCOT shall post one set of these reports on the MIS Certified Area on each non-Business Day for which an ACL is sent.
(a)	Available Credit Limit (ACL) Summary Report;
(b)	Total Potential Exposure (TPE) Summary Report;
(c)	Minimum Current Exposure (MCE) Summary Report;
(d)	Estimate Aggregate Liability (EAL) Summary Report;
(e)	Estimated Aggregate Liability (EAL) Detail Report;
(f)	Future Credit Exposure for CRR PTP Obligations (FCEOBL) Summary Report; and
(g)	Future Credit Exposure for CRR PTP Options (FCEOPT) Summary Report.
[NPRR1103:  Insert item (h) below upon system implementation:] 
(h)	Securitization Credit Exposure Report.
(2)	ERCOT shall post, no later than the 15th Bank Business Day of each month, the following reports on the MIS Certified Area for each active Counter-Party:
(a)	Monthly Collateral and Interest Report; and
(b)	Annual Collateral and Interest Report.
(3)	The reports listed in paragraphs (1) and (2) above shall be posted to the MIS Certified Area in Portable Document File (PDF) format and Microsoft Excel (XLS) format.  There shall be a provision to “open”, “save” and “print” each report.
16.11.5	Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Creditworthiness and Credit Exposure by ERCOT
(1)	ERCOT shall monitor the creditworthiness and credit exposure of each Counter-Party.  To enable ERCOT to monitor creditworthiness, each Counter-Party shall provide to ERCOT:  
(a)	Its own or its Ultimate Parent’s quarterly (semi-annually, if the Ultimate Parent is foreign and rated by a rating agency acceptable to ERCOT) unaudited financial statements not later than 60 days (90 days if the Ultimate Parent is foreign and rated by a rating agency acceptable to ERCOT) after the close of each of the issuer’s fiscal quarters; if an issuer’s financial statements are publicly available electronically and the issuer provides to ERCOT sufficient information to access those financial statements, then the issuer is considered to have met this requirement. 
(b)	Its own or its Ultimate Parent’s annual audited financial statements not later than 120 days after the close of each of the issuer’s fiscal year; if an issuer’s financial statements are publicly available electronically and the issuer provides to ERCOT sufficient information to access those financial statements, then the issuer is considered to have met this requirement.  ERCOT may extend the period for providing interim unaudited or annual audited statements on a case-by-case basis.  Annual audited financial statements must be prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
(c)	For paragraphs (a) and (b) above, financial statements shall include the Counter-Party’s or its Ultimate Parent’s:  
(i)	Statement of Financial Position (balance sheet) as of the applicable quarterly or annual ending date; 
(ii)	Statement of Income (or Profit and Loss); and 
(iii)	Statement of Cash Flows.
(d)	Notice of a material change.  A Counter-Party shall inform ERCOT within one Business Day if it has experienced a material change in its operations, financial condition or prospects that might adversely affect the Counter-Party.
(2)	A Counter-Party is responsible at all times for maintaining:
(a)	Financial Security in an amount equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s:
(i)	TPES; plus
(ii)	Net Positive Exposure of approved CRR Bilateral Trades; plus
(iii)	ACL locked for CRR Auction, if any; and
(b)	Remainder Collateral in an amount equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s TPEA.
(3)	ERCOT shall promptly notify each Counter-Party of the need to increase its Financial Security and allow the Counter-Party time, as defined in paragraph (6)(a) below, to provide additional Financial Security to maintain compliance with this Section. 
(4)	When either the Counter-Party’s TPEA or TPES as defined in Section 16.11.4, Determination and Monitoring of Counter-Party Credit Exposure, reaches 90% of its requirement, ERCOT shall use reasonable efforts to electronically issue a warning to the Counter-Party’s Authorized Representative and credit contact advising the Counter-Party that it should consider increasing its Financial Security.  However, failure to issue that warning does not prevent ERCOT from exercising any of its other rights under this Section.
(5)	ERCOT may suspend a Counter-Party when:
(a)	That Counter-Party’s TPES as defined in Section 16.11.4, equals or exceeds 100% of its Financial Security; or
(b)	That Counter-Party’s TPEA as defined in Section 16.11.4 equals or exceeds 100% of its Remainder Collateral. 
The Counter-Party is responsible at all times for managing its activity within both its TPEA and its TPES or increasing its Financial Security to avoid reaching its limits.  Any failure by ERCOT to send a Notice as set forth in this Section does not relieve the Counter-Party from the obligation to maintain appropriate Financial Security in amounts equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s TPES and TPEA as defined in Section 16.11.4. 
(6)	To the extent that a Counter-Party fails to maintain Financial Security in amounts equal to or greater than its TPES or Remainder Collateral in amounts equal to or greater than its TPEA, each as defined in Section 16.11.4:
(a)	ERCOT shall promptly notify the Counter-Party of the amount by which its Financial Security must be increased and allow it: 
(i)	Until 1500 on the second Bank Business Day from the date on which ERCOT delivered the Notice to increase its Financial Security if ERCOT delivered its Notice before 1500; or 
(ii)	Until 1700 on the second Bank Business Day from the date on which ERCOT delivered Notification to increase its Financial Security if ERCOT delivered its Notice after 1500 but prior to 1700.  
ERCOT shall notify the QSE’s Authorized Representative(s) and Credit Contact if it has not received the required security by 1530 on the Bank Business Day on which the security was due; however, failure to notify the Counter-Party’s representatives or contact that the required security was not received does not prevent ERCOT from exercising any of its other rights under this Section.
(b)	At the same time ERCOT notifies the Counter-Party that is the QSE, ERCOT may notify each LSE and Resource represented by the Counter-Party that the LSE or Resource may be required to designate a new QSE if its current QSE fails to increase its Financial Security. 
(c)	ERCOT is not required to make any payment to that Counter-Party unless and until the Counter-Party increases its Financial Security.  The payments that ERCOT will not make to a Counter-Party include Invoice receipts, CRR revenues, CRR credits, reimbursements for short payments, and any other reimbursements or credits under any other agreement between the Market Participant and ERCOT.  ERCOT may retain all such amounts until the Counter-Party has fully discharged all payment obligations owed to ERCOT under the Counter-Party Agreement, other agreements, and these Protocols. 
(d)	ERCOT may reject any bids or offers in a CRR Auction from the Counter-Party until it has increased its Financial Security.  ERCOT may reject any bids or offers from the Counter-Party in the DAM until it has increased its Financial Security.
(7)	If a Counter-Party increases its Financial Security as required by ERCOT by the deadline in paragraph (6)(a) above, then ERCOT may notify each LSE and Resource represented by the Counter-Party.
(8)	If a Counter-Party increases its Financial Security as required by ERCOT by the deadline in paragraph (6)(a) above, then ERCOT shall release any payments held.
16.11.6	Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants
(1)	It is the sole responsibility of each Market Participant to ensure that the full amounts due to ERCOT, or its designee, if applicable, by that Market Participant, are paid to ERCOT by the applicable time and date specified in the Protocols.  If no time is specified in the Protocols for a particular type of payment, then payment must be made by the close of the Bank Business Day on which payment is due. 
(2)	If a Market Participant receives separate Invoices for Subordinate QSE or various CRR Account Holder activity, netting by the Market Participant of the amounts due to ERCOT with amounts due to the Market Participant among those Invoices for payment purposes is not permitted.  The amounts due to ERCOT on the separate Invoices for each Market Participant must be paid by the applicable time and date specified in the Protocols.  If a Market Participant does not pay the full amount due to ERCOT for all such Invoices by the required time, ERCOT shall deduct any and all amounts due and unpaid from any amounts due to the same Market Participant before allocating short payments to other Market Participants.
(3)	The failure of a Market Participant to pay when due any payment or Financial Security obligation owed to ERCOT or its designee, if applicable, under any Agreement with ERCOT, is a Late Payment and constitutes an event of Payment Breach.  For purposes of designating a Late Payment, ERCOT shall consider multiple Invoices unpaid when due on a single Business Day by a single Market Participant as constituting one Late Payment.  Any Payment Breach by a Market Participant under any agreement with ERCOT is a Default under all other agreements between ERCOT and the Market Participant unless cured within one Bank Business Day after ERCOT delivers to the Market Participant written notice of the Payment Breach.  
(4)	Upon a Payment Breach, ERCOT shall immediately attempt to contact the Market Participant’s Authorized Representative and/or Credit Contact named in the Counter-Party Credit Application telephonically to inform the Market Participant of the Payment Breach, and demand payment of the past due amount. ERCOT shall also provide the Market Participant with written notice of the Payment Breach via email.  Upon a Payment Breach, ERCOT may impose remedies for Payment Breach, as set forth in Section 16.11.6.1, ERCOT’s Remedies, in addition to any other rights or remedies ERCOT has under any agreement, these Protocols or at common law.  
(5)	If a Market Participant makes a payment (or a partial payment, if allowed by these Protocols) or satisfies a collateral call to ERCOT after the required due date and time, or if a short-paid Invoice is settled by a draw on available security greater than the amount of Market Participant’s cash collateral held in excess of that required to cover its TPE (“Excess Collateral”), then that payment will be deemed a “Late Payment.”  
(6)	For purposes of assessing if a payment is a Late Payment, the time of receipt of a payment will be determined as follows:
(a)	For cash payments, the timestamp for when funds are credited to ERCOT’s bank account, or;
(b)	For non-cash Financial Security,
(i)	The timestamp of the email or facsimile, if the required documentation is delivered to ERCOT by email or facsimile, or;
(ii)	The timestamp of the delivery receipt, if the required documentation is mailed or physically delivered to ERCOT. 
(7)	ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, and upon a Market Participant’s showing that the failure to pay when due was not within the control of the Market Participant, deem that a failure to pay when due was neither a Payment Breach nor a Late Payment.  
(8)	ERCOT shall track the number of Late Payments received from each Market Participant in each rolling 12-month period for purposes of imposing the Late Payment remedies set forth in Section 16.11.6.2, ERCOT’s Remedies for Late Payments by a Market Participant.
16.11.6.1	ERCOT’s Remedies 
(1)	In addition to all other remedies that ERCOT has under any agreement, common law or these Protocols, for Payment Breaches or other Defaults by a Market Participant, ERCOT has the following additional remedies.
16.11.6.1.1	No Payments by ERCOT to Market Participant
(1)	ERCOT is not required to make any payment to a Market Participant unless and until the Market Participant satisfies the Payment Breach by paying the past due amount in full, including amounts due under Section 16.11.6.1.3, Aggregate Amount Owed by Breaching Market Participant Immediately Due.  The payments that ERCOT will not make include Invoice receipts, CRR Auction revenues, CRR credits, reimbursements for short payments and any other reimbursements or credits under any and all other agreements between ERCOT and the Market Participant.  ERCOT shall retain all such amounts, and may apply all withheld funds toward the payment of the delinquent amount(s), until the Market Participant has fully paid all amounts owed to ERCOT under any agreements and these Protocols.  If the Market Participant should fail to pay the full amount due within the cure period, ERCOT may apply all funds it withheld toward the payment of the delinquent amount(s).
16.11.6.1.2	ERCOT May Draw On, Hold or Distribute Funds
(1)	Upon a Payment Breach, ERCOT, at its option, without notice to the Market Participant and in its sole discretion, may immediately, or at any time before the Market Participant pays the past due amount in full, including amounts due under Section 16.11.6.1.3, Aggregate Amount Owed by Breaching Market Participant Immediately Due, draw on, hold or distribute to other Market Participants any Financial Security or other funds of the Market Participant in ERCOT’s possession.  If the funds drawn exceed the amount applied to any Payment Breach, then ERCOT may hold those funds as Financial Security.
16.11.6.1.3	Aggregate Amount Owed by Breaching Market Participant Immediately Due
(1)	ERCOT shall aggregate all amounts due it by the Market Participant under any agreement with ERCOT and these Protocols into a single amount to the fullest extent allowed by law.  The entire unpaid net balance owed to ERCOT by the Market Participant, at ERCOT’s option, and its sole discretion, is immediately due and payable without further notice and demand for payment.  Any such notice and demand for payment are expressly waived by the Market Participant.
16.11.6.1.4	Repossession of CRRs by ERCOT
(1)	ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may repossess CRRs held by a Market Participant with a Payment Breach or other Default.  ERCOT shall effect that repossession by sending a written notice to the Market Participant of the repossession and by removing the CRRs from the Market Participant’s CRR account.  CRRs that settle in the same calendar month as the repossession but subsequent to the effective date of the repossession shall be voided.  The Market Participant will neither be charged, nor entitled to credit, for the voided CRRs in the DAM Settlement.  ERCOT shall offer a portfolio of CRRs containing all of the remaining unvoided repossessed CRRs, with each repossessed CRR in its existing configuration, in a one-time auction to Market Participants (other than the Market Participant(s) in Payment Breach or other Default) for sale to the highest bidder with a positive bid price for the entire portfolio.  PTP Options with Refund and PTP Obligations with Refund will be voided and will not be included in the portfolio of repossessed CRRs available in the one-time auction.  ERCOT shall offset net revenues from that sale against amounts owed to ERCOT by the Market Participant.  If revenues from the sale exceed amounts owed to ERCOT then the excess shall be remitted to the Market Participant.  If ERCOT receives no positive bids for the portfolio of CRRs in the one-time auction, ERCOT shall void all of the repossessed CRRs.
[NPRR1023:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(1)	ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may repossess CRRs held by a Market Participant in Default under an Agreement with ERCOT.  ERCOT shall effect that repossession by sending a written notice to the Market Participant of the repossession and by removing the Market Participant’s access to the repossessed CRRs.  The repossessed CRRs will be handled as specified in Section 16.11.6.1.6, Liquidation of Repossessed or Forfeited CRRs.
16.11.6.1.5	Declaration of Forfeit of CRRs
(1)	At ERCOT’s sole discretion, if it does not receive full payment on the due date of a CRR Auction Invoice, may declare any of the CRR bids cleared and Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Rights (PCRRs) allocated to the Market Participant forfeited. ERCOT shall effect that forfeiture by sending a written notice to the Market Participant of the forfeiture and of not delivering the CRRs or PCRRs to the Market Participant’s CRR account.  ERCOT shall either (a) offer all forfeited CRRs, with each forfeited CRR in its existing configuration, in a one-time auction to Market Participants (other than the Market Participant(s) in Payment Breach or other Default) for sale to the highest bidder with a positive bid price or (b) ERCOT shall make the related capacity available in subsequent CRR Auctions.  Revenue from that sale shall be considered as CRR Auction revenue and distributed to QSEs based on Load Ratio Share as specified in Section 7.5.7, Method for Distributing CRR Auction Revenues.
[NPRR1023:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(1)	At ERCOT’s sole discretion, if it does not receive full payment on the due date of a CRR Auction Invoice, it may declare any of the CRR bids cleared and Pre-Assigned Congestion Revenue Rights (PCRRs) allocated to the Market Participant forfeited. ERCOT shall effect that forfeiture by sending a written Notice to the Market Participant of the forfeiture and by not delivering the CRRs or PCRRs to the Market Participant’s CRR account.  The forfeited CRRs or PCRRs will be liquidated as specified in Section 16.11.6.1.6, Liquidation of Repossessed or Forfeited CRRs.
(2)	ERCOT may also, at its sole discretion, honor any of the offers from Market Participants that were cleared in the CRR Auction by removing the CRRs from the Market Participant’s CRR account.  ERCOT shall offset net revenues due to the Market Participant from CRRs offered and cleared against amounts owed to ERCOT by the Market Participant.
[NPRR1023:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(2)	ERCOT may also, at its sole discretion, honor any of the sell offers that were cleared in the CRR Auction made by a Market Participant who fails to fully pay the CRR Auction Invoice when due.  ERCOT shall offset net revenues due to the Market Participant from CRRs offered and cleared against amounts owed to ERCOT by the Market Participant.

[NPRR1023:  Insert Section 16.11.6.1.6 below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:] 
16.11.6.1.6	Liquidation of Repossessed or Forfeited CRRs
(1)	If any repossessed or forfeited CRRs have the following characteristics, they will be irrevocably voided, the capacity will be dissolved, and they will not settle in the DAM beyond the effective date of the repossession or forfeiture nor be offered into any future CRR Auctions:
(a) 	PTP Options with Refund and PTP Obligations with Refund; 
(b) 	Awarded PCRRs that have not yet been priced in a CRR Auction and paid for by the breaching or defaulting Market Participant; and
(c)	Partial-month CRRs resulting from bilateral trades.
(2)	The remaining unvoided CRRs in the repossessed or forfeited portfolio will be liquidated in the following manner, based on the characteristics of the CRRs:
(a) 	For CRRs that settle in the same month as the effective date of the repossession or forfeiture, for CRRs where the timing of the Market Participant Payment Breach or Default does not allow for the repossessed or forfeited CRRs to be offered into the CRR Monthly Auction in the calendar month following the Payment Breach or Default, for forfeited CRRs that were awarded in a CRR Monthly Auction, and for repossessed CRRs that have been offered into every available auction but were not fully awarded, the CRRs will settle in the DAM and may result in net payments or charges accruing for Operating Days throughout the month, as follows:
(i)	If the CRR portfolio results in a net charge in the DAM, the payment will, to the extent possible, be made by drawing on any available Financial Security of the Market Participant from whom the CRRs were repossessed or forfeited.  If this is insufficient to pay the charge in full, the remainder due will be short-paid for the Operating Day in accordance with Section 9.7.3, Enforcing the Financial Security of a Short-Paying Invoice Recipient.  Regardless of the short pay, any Market Participant from whom CRRs were repossessed or forfeited shall remain liable for any charges associated with the liquidation of its CRRs in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section 16.11.6.1.7, Revocation of a Market Participant’s Rights and Termination of Agreements.
(ii)	If the CRR portfolio results in a net payment in the DAM, the payment amount will be added to the cash collateral held by ERCOT for the Market Participant from whom the CRRs were repossessed or forfeited. 
(b) 	For any remaining unvoided repossessed or forfeited CRRs for one-month or multi-month strips, ERCOT will offer each CRR into the next available auction for the effective time period of the repossessed or forfeited CRR.   
(i)	CRRs will be offered into auctions at -$0.01 for PTP Options and -$500.00 for PTP Obligations.
(ii)	If a CRR is offered into an auction but is not fully awarded, the remaining MW of the CRR will be offered into the next available auction for the effective time period of the repossessed or forfeited CRR.  ERCOT may adjust the offer price for a PTP Obligation in subsequent auctions to increase the likelihood of the sell offer being fully awarded.
If another auction will not be held for the effective time period of the repossessed or forfeited CRRs, the remaining unawarded MW of each CRR will settle in the DAM and may result in net payments or charges accruing for Operating Days throughout the month, as noted in paragraph (2)(a) above. 
(iii)	Prior to offering repossessed or forfeited CRRs into an auction, ERCOT will calculate the value of all PTP Obligations for each CRR Account Holder associated with the defaulting Counter-Party by summing the value of all existing PTP Obligations for which the most recent auction clearing price for the effective time period of the auction was negative.  The value of each CRR will be calculated per the following formula: (MW amount) x (TOU hours) x (auction clearing price).  The total value of the PTP Obligations for the defaulting Counter-Party will be evaluated to determine if it exceeds 10% of the value of all existing PTP Obligations for which the most recent auction clearing prices for the effective time period of the auction were negative.  If the total value of the PTP Obligations for the defaulting Counter-Party to be offered into an auction exceeds the 10% threshold, ERCOT will prorate the CRR MW amounts to be offered into the auction to reduce the total portfolio value to be below the 10% threshold.  The remaining CRR MW will be offered into the next available auction for the effective time period of the repossessed or forfeited CRRs or will settle in DAM if there will not be another auction for the effective time period.  
(iv)	A charge resulting from the sale of the CRRs into an auction will, to the extent possible, be paid by drawing on any available Financial Security of the Market Participant from whom the CRRs were repossessed or forfeited.  If this is insufficient to pay the charge in full, the remainder due will be short-paid in accordance with Section 9.7.3.  Regardless of the short pay, any Market Participant from whom CRRs were repossessed or forfeited shall remain liable for any charges associated with the liquidation of its CRRs in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section 16.11.6.1.7.
(v)	A payment resulting from the sale of the CRRs into an auction will be added to the Financial Security of the Market Participant from whom the CRRs were repossessed or forfeited. 
16.11.6.1.6	Revocation of a Market Participant’s Rights and Termination of Agreements
(1)	ERCOT may revoke a breaching Market Participant’s rights to conduct activities under these Protocols.  ERCOT may also terminate the breaching Market Participant’s agreements with ERCOT.
(2)	If ERCOT revokes a Market Participant’s rights or terminates the Market Participant’s agreements, then the provisions of Section 16.2.5, Suspended or Terminated Qualified Scheduling Entity – Notification to LSEs and Resource Entities Represented, and Section 16.2.6.1, Designation as an Emergency Qualified Scheduling Entity or Virtual Qualified Scheduling Entity, apply.
(3)	If a breaching Market Participant is also an LSE (whether or not the Default occurred pursuant to the Market Participant’s activities as an LSE), then:
(a) 	Within 24 hours of receiving notice of the Payment Breach, the Market Participant shall provide to ERCOT all the information regarding its ESI IDs set forth in the ERCOT Retail Market Guide; and 
(b)	On revocation of some or all of the Market Participant’s rights or termination of the Market Participant’s agreements and on notice to the Market Participant and the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), ERCOT shall initiate a Mass Transition of the Market Participant’s ESI IDs pursuant to Section 15.1.3.1, Mass Transition Process, without the necessity of obtaining any order from or other action by the PUCT.  
(4)	After revocation of its rights or termination of its Agreement with ERCOT, the Market Participant will remain liable for all charges or costs associated with any continued activity related to the Counter-Party’s relationship with ERCOT and any expenses arising from the consequences of such termination or revocation.
16.11.6.2	ERCOT’s Remedies for Late Payments by a Market Participant
(1)	If a Market Participant makes any Late Payments, and even if ERCOT does not immediately implement the above-referenced remedies for any Payment Breach by a Market Participant, the Market Participant is subject to the actions enumerated in this Section.
(2)	This Section does not waive ERCOT’s right to impose remedies for Payment Breach, as set forth in Section 16.11.6.1, ERCOT’s Remedies, in addition to any other rights or remedies ERCOT has under any agreement, these Protocols, or at common law, for any Payment Breach by the Market Participant in each rolling 12-month period for purposes of imposing the Late Payment remedies set forth in this Section.
16.11.6.2.1	First Late Payment in Any Rolling 12-Month Period
(1)	For the first Late Payment in any rolling 12-month period, ERCOT shall take Level I Enforcement action, as described in Section 16.11.6.2.5, Level I Enforcement.
(2)	ERCOT shall send written notice to the Market Participant’s Authorized Representative and/or Credit Contact via email, advising the Market Participant of the action required under Level I Enforcement.
16.11.6.2.2	Second Late Payment in Any Rolling 12-Month Period
(1)	For the second Late Payment in any rolling 12-month period, ERCOT shall take Level II Enforcement action, as described in Section 16.11.6.2.6, Level II Enforcement.:
(2)	ERCOT shall send written notice to the Market Participant’s Authorized Representative and/or Credit Contact via email, advising the Market Participant of the action required under Level II Enforcement.
16.11.6.2.3	Third Late Payment in Any Rolling 12-Month Period
(1)	For the third Late Payment in any rolling 12-month period, ERCOT shall take Level III Enforcement action, as described in Section 16.11.6.2.7, Level III Enforcement.
(2)	ERCOT shall send written notice to the Market Participant’s Authorized Representative and/or Credit Contact via email, advising the Market Participant of the action required under Level III Enforcement, and informing the Market Participant that a fourth Late Payment in any rolling 12-month period shall result in ERCOT taking action under Section 16.11.6.1.6, Revocation of a Market Participant’s Rights and Termination of Agreements.  
16.11.6.2.4	Fourth Late Payment in Any Rolling 12-Month Period
(1)	For the fourth Late Payment resulting from a Payment Breach in any rolling 12-month period, ERCOT shall take action under Section 16.11.6.1.6, Revocation of a Market Participant’s Rights and Termination of Agreements.
16.11.6.2.5	Level I Enforcement
(1)	Under Level I Enforcement, ERCOT shall notify the Market Participant to comply with one of the following requirements:
(a)	If the Market Participant has not provided Financial Security, the Market Participant shall now provide Financial Security, within two Bank Business Days, in an amount at or above 110% of the amount of the Market Participant’s TPE; or any other liability to ERCOT that the Market Participant has or is expected to have for activity in the ERCOT Region, whichever applies.
(b)	If the Market Participant has already provided Financial Security, the Market Participant shall increase its Financial Security, within two Bank Business Days, to an amount at or above 110% of its TPE or any other liability to ERCOT that the Market Participant has or is expected to have for activity in the ERCOT Region, whichever applies.
(2)	Increased Financial Security requirements under this Section remain in effect for a minimum of 60 days and remain in effect thereafter until ERCOT, at its sole discretion, determines to reduce such Financial Security requirements to the normally applicable levels.
16.11.6.2.6	Level II Enforcement
(1)	Under Level II Enforcement, ERCOT shall notify the Market Participant that the Market Participant shall provide Financial Security, within two Bank Business Days, in the form of a cash deposit or letter of credit, as chosen by ERCOT at its sole discretion, at 115% of the Market Participant’s TPE or for any other liability to ERCOT that the Market Participant has or is expected to have for activity in the ERCOT Region.   
(2)	Increased Financial Security requirements under this Section remain in effect for a minimum of 60 days and remain in effect thereafter until ERCOT, at its sole discretion, determines to reduce such Financial Security requirements to the normally applicable levels.
16.11.6.2.7	Level III Enforcement
(1)	Under Level III Enforcement, ERCOT shall notify the Market Participant that the Market Participant shall provide Financial Security within two Bank Business Days at 120% of the Market Participant’s TPE or for any other liability to ERCOT that the Market Participant has or is expected to have for activity in the ERCOT Region. Required Financial Security in excess of TPE must be in the form of a cash deposit.
(2)	Increased Financial Security requirements under this Section remain in effect for a minimum of 90 days and remain in effect thereafter until ERCOT, at its sole discretion, determines to reduce such Financial Security requirements to the normally applicable levels.
16.11.7	Release of Market Participant’s Financial Security Requirement
(1)	Following the termination of a Market Participant’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement, ERCOT shall retain Financial Security to cover potential future obligations of the terminated Market Participant.  These obligations may include, but are not limited to, Resettlement Statements, Final or True-Up Settlements, and Default Uplift Invoices.
[NPRR1023:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(1)	Following the termination of a Market Participant’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement, ERCOT shall retain Financial Security to cover potential future obligations of the terminated Market Participant.  These obligations may include, but are not limited to, the Invoices associated with the liquidation of repossessed or forfeited CRRs, Resettlement Statements, Final or True-Up Settlements, and Default Uplift Invoices.

[NPRR1023:  Insert paragraph (2) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:] 
(2)	Regardless of whether a Market Participant’s Agreement with ERCOT has been terminated, ERCOT shall not return or release any Financial Security of a Market Participant from whom CRRs were repossessed or forfeited until all such repossessed or forfeited CRRs have been voided, settled in the DAM, or sold in a CRR Auction in accordance with Section 16.11.6.1.6, Liquidation of Repossessed or Forfeited CRRs, and all Invoices associated with the liquidation have been paid in full.
(2)	Required Financial Security for potential future obligations of a terminated Market Participant will be the maximum of the Counter-Party’s TPE, as applicable, or $5,000.
[NPRR1023:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:] 
(3)	Except as specified in paragraph (2) above, required Financial Security for potential future obligations of a terminated Market Participant will be the maximum of the Counter-Party’s TPE, as applicable, or $5,000.
(3)	If a terminated Market Participant elects to withdraw non-cash Financial Security following termination, and ERCOT determines that Financial Security continues to be necessary to cover potential future obligations, then the terminated Market Participant must provide ERCOT with Cash Collateral in the amount determined by ERCOT under this section before ERCOT will return or release the non-cash Financial Security to the terminated Market Participant.
(4)	Upon ERCOT’s sole determination that no sums remain owed or are necessary to cover potential future obligations to ERCOT by the terminated Market Participant, ERCOT shall return or release any Financial Security held by ERCOT to the terminated Market Participant.
[NPRR1023:  Insert Section 16.11.8 below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:] 
16.11.8	Conversion of Letters of Credit and Surety Bonds to Cash Collateral
(1)	To facilitate Settlement of Market Participant Invoices arising in consequence of a Payment Breach or other Default by a Market Participant, including but not limited to those described in Section 16.11.6.1.4, Repossession of CRRs by ERCOT, Section 16.11.6.1.5, Declaration of Forfeit of CRRs, and Section 16.11.6.1.6, Liquidation of Repossessed or Forfeited CRRs, ERCOT may at its sole discretion initiate conversion of letters of credit, or surety bonds held as Financial Security to cash collateral.
16.11.8	Acceleration
(1)	Upon termination of a Market Participant’s rights as a Market Participant and any other agreement(s) between ERCOT and the Market Participant, all sums owed to ERCOT are immediately accelerated and are immediately due and owing in full.  At that time, ERCOT may immediately draw upon the Market Participant’s Financial Security and shall use those funds to offset or recoup all amounts due to ERCOT.
16.12	User Security Administrator and Digital Certificates
(1)	Each Market Participant is allowed access to certain ERCOT computer systems through the use of Digital Certificates upon execution of the Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (as provided for in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement), and completion of applicable registration and qualification requirements.  Digital Certificates expire after one year.
(2)	A User Security Administrator (USA) is responsible for managing the Market Participant’s access to non-public ERCOT computer systems through Digital Certificates.  A USA may also be responsible for managing the Market Participant’s access to the online Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations (“RIOO”) system, which does not require a Digital Certificate.  Each Market Participant that will receive Digital Certificate(s) must, as part of the application for registration with ERCOT, designate an individual employee or authorized agent as its USA, and optionally, a backup USA.  If a Market Participant has designated a backup USA and the primary USA fails to perform, or is unable to perform, the functions required of a USA, then the backup USA shall perform any and all functions required of the primary USA.  The Market Participant is responsible for revising its USA list as the need arises.  The Market Participant’s USA is responsible for registering all Market Participant’s Digital Certificate holders (“Certificate Holders”) and administering the use of Digital Certificates on behalf of the Market Participant.  ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure or Certified Area may be accessed only by those individuals that are issued ECEII-eligible Digital Certificates.  Each Market Participant that will receive Digital Certificates and  having more than one ERCOT functional registration must designate a USA for each registration (which may be the same employee or authorized agent) and shall manage each registration separately for the purposes of this Section.  Once the Market Participant completes registration requirements, ERCOT shall send the USA a copy of the Digital Certificate user guide. 
(3)	Only Market Participants registered with ERCOT as either a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) or an Electric Cooperative (EC), and as a Distribution Service Provider (DSP) and/or Load Serving Entity (LSE), may be eligible to opt out of designating a USA and receiving Digital Certificates if the Market Participant demonstrates to ERCOT’s satisfaction that it does not need a Digital Certificate to perform its obligations under the ERCOT Protocols, market guides, or other applicable rules. 
(4) 	An eligible Market Participant that wishes to opt out of designating a USA and receiving Digital Certificates shall submit a request form, found on the ERCOT website, confirming its desire to opt out subject to ERCOT’s review and approval.  ERCOT will notify the requesting Market Participant of its approval or disapproval of the request within 14 Business Days.  ERCOT may subsequently revoke, at its sole discretion, Market Participant’s election to opt out if the Market Participant’s lack of a Digital Certificate causes administrative burdens or reliability concerns.  ERCOT will send notice of revocation to the Market Participant who will have ten Business Days to fill out a Notice of Change of Information (NCI) form (Section 23, Form E, Notice of Change of Information) and submit it to ERCOT.  Once the NCI is submitted, the request for a Digital Certificate will be subject to the same requirements applicable to the processing of an initial request by a new Market Participant. 
(5)	Market Participants that have received approval from ERCOT to opt out of designating a USA and receiving Digital Certificates are not excused from obligations under the ERCOT Protocols, other than the obligations required in this Section 16.12 regarding Digital Certificates.  Market Participants who opt out shall still be required to submit the Digital Certificate Audit Attestation (DCAA) required by paragraph (2) of Section 16.12.3, Market Participant Audits of User Security Administrators and Digital Certificates, for the portion of the year, if any, during which they had a USA and Digital Certificate(s).
(6)	A Market Participant that has been granted approval by ERCOT to opt out of designating a USA and receiving Digital Certificates will not have access to information that would ordinarily be retrievable with a Digital Certificate.  A Market Participant that has been granted approval by ERCOT to opt out of designating a USA and receiving Digital Certificates may, at any time, cancel its opt-out status by submitting an NCI form (Section 23, Form E).
16.12.1	USA Responsibilities and Qualifications for Digital Certificate Holders
(1)	The USA and the Market Participant are responsible for the following:
(a)	Requesting Digital Certificates for authorized Certificate Holders (either persons or programmatic interfaces) that the USA has qualified through an appropriate screening process requiring confirmation that the Certificate Holder is an employee or authorized agent (including third parties) of the Market Participant.  A Certificate Holder (including the USA) must be qualified as set forth below.  The Market Participant shall be liable for ensuring that each of its Certificate Holder(s) meets the requirements of (i) – (v) below.
(i)	For any employee or authorized agent receiving a Digital Certificate, the Market Participant shall confirm that the employee or authorized agent satisfies reasonable background review sufficient for employment or contract with the Market Participant so as to reasonably limit threat(s) to ERCOT’s market or computer systems.  The Market Participant may not request that Digital Certificates be issued to any employee or authorized agent that it determines, after reasonable background review, poses a threat to ERCOT’s market or computer systems.  
(ii)	The Certificate Holder is aware of the rules and restrictions relating to the use of Digital Certificates.  
(iii)	The Certificate Holder is eligible to review and receive technology and software under applicable export control laws and regulations.  ERCOT shall post links to such laws and regulations on the ERCOT website. 
(iv)	The Market Participant has conducted a reasonable review of the Certificate Holder and has confirmed that the Certificate Holder is not on any U.S. terrorist threat lists such as the Consolidated Screening List or the Federal Bureau of Investigation Most Wanted Terrorists List.  ERCOT will post links to relevant lists on the ERCOT website.  
(v)	The Certificate Holder does not violate the conditions of use specified by the software vendor that provides the Digital Certificates for the Market Participant’s use and provided to the Certificate Holder.  ERCOT will post links to relevant conditions of use on the ERCOT website.
(b)	Requesting revocation of Digital Certificates.  The Market Participant or USA shall request revocation of Digital Certificates by proceeding with the ERCOT Digital Certificate revocation process as described in the Digital Certificate User Guide.  The Market Participant or USA shall request revocation of a Digital Certificate under any of the following conditions:
(i)	As soon as possible but no later than three Business Days after:
(A)	A Certificate Holder ceases employment with the Market Participant; or
(B)	The Market Participant becomes aware that a Certificate Holder is changing job functions (pursuant to a reasonable process for identifying when job function changes occur) so that the Certificate Holder no longer needs the Digital Certificate; 
(ii)	As soon as possible, but no later than five Business Days, after the Market Participant becomes aware (pursuant to a reasonable process for identifying violations) that the Certificate Holder has violated any of the following conditions of use of a Digital Certificate: 
(A)	Violating the requirements if any of paragraph (1)(a)(i) – (v) above;
(B)	Using the Digital Certificate for any unauthorized purpose; or 
(C)	Allowing any person other than the Certificate Holder to use the Digital Certificate. 
(c)	Managing the level of access for each Certificate Holder by assigning and maintaining Digital Certificate roles for each authorized user in accordance with the process set forth in ERCOT’s Digital Certificate user guide.
(d)	Requesting annual renewal of Digital Certificates.	
(e)	If needed, issuing Digital Certificates for use by electronic systems not limited to servers. 
	Maintaining the integrity of the administration of Digital Certificates through consistent, sound and reasonable business practices. 
16.12.2	Requirements for Use of Digital Certificates
(1)	Use of Digital Certificates must comply with the following:
(a)	A Digital Certificate shall be used by only one individual and may not be shared.  If multiple employees or authorized agents share a computer and each requires a Digital Certificate, the USA shall request separate Digital Certificates for each. Multiple Digital Certificates may be installed and managed on a single computer.  ERCOT shall include instructions on how to manage multiple Digital Certificates in the Digital Certificate user guide.
(b)	A Digital Certificate may not be traded or sold.
(c)	Electronic equipment on which the Digital Certificate resides must be physically and electronically secured in a reasonable manner to prevent improper use of the Digital Certificate.
(d)	The Market Participant is wholly responsible for any use of Digital Certificates issued by its USA.
16.12.3	Market Participant Audits of User Security Administrators and Digital Certificates
(1)	During September of each year, each Market Participant that has been issued any Digital Certificates shall generate a list of its registered USA and Certificate Holders.  The Market Participant, through its USA or another authorized third party, shall perform an audit by reviewing the list and noting any inconsistencies or instances of non-compliance (including, for example, any Certificate Holder that may have changed job functions and no longer requires the Digital Certificate).  If the Market Participant or its USA or the authorized third party identifies discrepancies, the USA shall use the process for managing Digital Certificates as included in ERCOT’s Digital Certificate user guide to rectify the discrepancy. The audit must, at a minimum confirm that:
(a)	The Market Participant and each listed USA and Certificate Holder meet the applicable requirements of paragraph (1)(a) of Section 16.12.1, USA Responsibilities and Qualifications for Digital Certificate Holders, and are not subject to any of the conditions that would require revocation as described in paragraph (1)(b) of Section 16.12.1;  
(b)	Each listed USA and Certificate Holder is currently employed by or is an authorized agent contracted with the Market Participant; 
(c)	The Market Participant has verified that the listed USA is authorized to be the USA; 
(d)	Each Certificate Holder is authorized to retain and use the Digital Certificate; and
(e)	Each listed Certificate Holder needs the Digital Certificate to perform his or her job functions.
(2)	By October 1 of each year, a Market Participant shall submit to ERCOT a DCAA (as provided for in Section 23, Form L, Digital Certificate Audit Attestation) from an individual who: (a) is an officer, executive, or employee of the Market Participant or of an Affiliate of the Market Participant; and (b) has authority to bind the Market Participant.  The attestation shall certify that: 
(a)	The Market Participant has complied with the requirements of the audit;
(b)	The Market Participant has verified that all assigned Digital Certificates belong to Certificate Holders authorized by the Market Participant’s USA.  If the Certificate Holders no longer meet the criteria in paragraph (1)(a) of Section 16.12.1, the USA shall inform ERCOT as described in paragraph (1)(b) of Section 16.12.1 and note the findings in the response; and
(c)	The USA and all Certificate Holders have been qualified through a reasonable screening process and background review required by paragraphs (1)(a)(i)-(v) of Section 16.12.1. 
(3)	If a Market Participant cannot comply with the October 1 deadline at the time this Section first applies to the Market Participant, the Market Participant shall request an extension of the deadline by providing ERCOT a written explanation of why it cannot meet the deadline.  The explanation must include a plan and timeline for compliance not to exceed six months from the original deadline.  ERCOT shall review that extension request and notify the Market Participant if the request is approved or denied.  ERCOT may approve no more than one extension request per Market Participant.  
(4)	By December 1 of each year, ERCOT shall acknowledge receipt of each DCAA audit received and indicate whether any required information is missing from the DCAA.
16.12.4	ERCOT Audit - Consequences of Non-compliance
(1)	ERCOT, or its designee, shall review the DCAA submitted under Section 16.12.3, Market Participant Audits of User Security Administrators and Digital Certificates, and may audit the Market Participant for compliance with the provisions of this Section 16.12, User Security Administrator and Digital Certificates. The Market Participant shall cooperate fully with ERCOT in such audits.  
(2)	On or about December 15 of each year, ERCOT shall report to the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) all Market Participants failing to properly perform and/or submit complete DCAA(s) as described in Section 16.12.3 or non-compliance with Section 16.12.3.  
(3)	ERCOT, after providing notice to the Market Participant and PUCT Staff, may disqualify the Market Participant’s USA and/or revoke any or all Digital Certificates assigned to the Market Participant if:
(a)	The Market Participant does not properly and timely perform the audit; 
(b)	ERCOT discovers non-compliance; or 
(c)	The Market Participant does not timely request revocation of its Digital Certificates for unauthorized Certificate Holders. 
(4)	ERCOT’s decision to disqualify a Market Participant’s USA or revoke a Market Participant’s Digital Certificates as described above is subject to the following:
(a) 	A Market Participant’s Digital Certificates may not be revoked unless the Market Participant is given a reasonable opportunity to work with ERCOT to resolve the reason for revocation;
(b) 	A Market Participant’s USA may not be disqualified unless it is given a reasonable opportunity to authorize a new USA and assign new Digital Certificates as necessary to prevent disruption of the Market Participant’s business; and
(c) 	A Market Participant may dispute ERCOT’s decision to disqualify the Market Participant’s USA and/or revoke its Digital Certificates through the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Procedure in accordance with Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure, and may appeal the result of the ADR process to the PUCT as provided in Section 20. 
16.13	Registration of Emergency Response Service Resources
(1)	An Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resource shall be deemed to have registered with ERCOT when its duly authorized Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) submits an offer on behalf of the Resource in accordance with Section 3.14.3.1, Emergency Response Service Procurement.
16.14	Termination of Access Privileges to Restricted Computer Systems and Control Systems
(1)	All Market Participants and ERCOT are required to have processes in place to terminate access privileges, as soon as practicable, to Restricted Systems for any employee, consultant, or contractor, upon termination of employment or where access is no longer required. 
(2)	“Restricted Systems” include computer or control systems that are essential to the operation of Restricted Facilities.  
(3)	“Restricted Facilities” include Facilities and assets that support the reliable operation of the bulk ERCOT System (100 kV and above), such as but not limited to:
(a)	Generation Resources; 
[NPRR1246:  Replace item (a) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(a)	Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs);
(b)	Transmission substations; 
(c)	Control/dispatch centers and backup control/dispatch centers related to items (a) and (b) above; 
(d)	Systems and Facilities critical to system restoration (including but not limited to Black Start generators and substations); and
(e)	Systems and Facilities critical to automatic firm load shedding.
(4)	Access privilege is defined to include computer and electronic access.
(5)	Each Market Participant and ERCOT shall have internal controls in place to ensure these processes are reviewed at least on an annual basis.
(6)	Each Market Participant and ERCOT are required to notify the compliance monitoring authority within two Business Days after the discovery of any incident where a terminated employee, contractor or employee of a contractor has accessed a Restricted System when access privileges have been or should have been revoked.
(7)	Failure by a Market Participant or ERCOT to follow its processes that results in access to any Restricted Systems by any employee, consultant, contractor or affiliate after his or her termination will be considered a violation of these Protocols.
16.15	Registration of Independent Market Information System Registered Entity
(1)	Each Entity intending to qualify to access ERCOT’s Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area, independent of any other Market Participant role, shall register with ERCOT, including any applicable fees, designating Authorized Representatives, contacts, and a User Security Administrator (USA) (per the Application for Registration as an Independent Market Information System Registered Entity (IMRE)), and execute a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (as provided in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement) prior to receiving a USA Digital Certificate for setting access to ERCOT’s MIS Secure Area.
(2)	An Entity must have a genuine professional or business purpose for obtaining access to the MIS Secure Area to qualify for registration as an IMRE.  ERCOT may determine, in its sole discretion, whether the Entity’s purpose qualifies for registration.
(3)	Continued status as an IMRE is contingent upon compliance with all applicable requirements in these Protocols.  ERCOT may suspend an IMRE’s rights as a Market Participant when ERCOT reasonably determines that it is an appropriate remedy for the Entity’s failure to satisfy any applicable requirement.
16.16	Additional Counter-Party Qualification Requirements 
16.16.1	Counter-Party Criteria
(1)	In order to participate in the ERCOT Real-Time, Day-Ahead and Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) markets, in addition to satisfying any other eligibility requirements set forth in the ERCOT Protocols, each Counter-Party must satisfy, and at all times remain in compliance with, the following requirements: 
(a)	Expertise in Markets.  All employees or agents transacting in ERCOT markets pursuant to the ERCOT Protocols have had appropriate training and/or experience and are qualified and authorized to transact on behalf of the Counter-Party.
(b)	Market Operational Capabilities.  Counter-Party has appropriate market operating procedures and technical abilities to promptly and effectively respond to all ERCOT market communications.
(c)	Allowable Contract Participants.  Each Counter-Party must be one of the following: 
(i)	An “Appropriate Person” as defined in sections 4(c)(3)(A) through (J) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. § 6(c)(3)(A)-(J)); 
(ii)	An “Eligible Contract Participant,” as defined in section 1a(18)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. § 1a(18)(A)) and in Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) regulation 1.3(m) (17 C.F.R. § 1.3(m)); or 
(iii)	A “person who actively participates in the generation, transmission, or distribution of electric energy,” as that term is defined in the CFTC’s final exemption order (78 Fed. Reg. 19,879).
	ERCOT may request necessary information to verify compliance with this requirement.
(d)	Independent Amount.  Counter-Party shall provide an Independent Amount as follows:
(i)	For a Counter-Party seeking authorization to participate or participating in all ERCOT markets, $500,000 Independent Amount.
(ii)	For a Counter-Party seeking authorization to participate or participating in all ERCOT markets except for the CRR market, $200,000 Independent Amount.  
(iii)	For purposes of assessment of the Independent Amount, ERCOT will deem a Counter-Party that is or is applying to be a CRR Account Holder as having a desire to participate in all ERCOT markets. 
(iv)	Financial Security posted pursuant to this section is fully available to ERCOT in the event of the Counter-Party’s Payment Breach.  
(v)	ERCOT shall add the Independent Amount to that Counter-Party’s Total Potential Exposure Secured (TPES) pursuant to Section 16.11 and designate it as the Independent Amount.  ERCOT will require Financial Security for the Independent Amount in the same way as it does for other TPES elements. 
(vi)	Any non-payment of the Independent Amount is considered a Payment Breach pursuant to Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants.  ERCOT may use any of the remedies provided in Section 16.11.6 to collect the Independent Amount for each Counter-Party
(e)	Risk Management Capabilities.  Each Counter-Party shall maintain appropriate, comprehensive risk management capabilities with respect to the ERCOT markets in which the Counter-Party transacts or wishes to transact.  ERCOT may review documentation supporting a Counter-Party’s risk management framework as part of its processes for verifying the implementation of a Counter-Party’s risk management framework as described in Section 16.16.3, Verification of Risk Management Framework.   
16.16.2	Annual Certification  
(1)	Each Counter-Party must submit to ERCOT annually a notarized certificate, signed by an officer or executive with authority to bind the Counter-Party, in the form of Section 22, Attachment J, Annual Certification Form to Meet ERCOT Additional Minimum Participation Requirements, certifying that the Counter-Party is in compliance with each of the Counter-Party criteria and agrees to procedures for verification of its risk management framework as described in Section 16.16.3, Verification of Risk Management Framework.  
(2)	The certificate must be received by ERCOT no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year of the Counter-Party or its parent.  ERCOT may extend the period for providing the certificate on a case-by-case basis.
(3)	For new entry Counter-Parties, the certificate must be received by ERCOT prior to participation in any ERCOT markets.
(4)	A Counter-Party shall notify ERCOT within one day if it has experienced a material adverse change that would make its most recent annual certificate inaccurate. 
16.16.3	Verification of Risk Management Framework 
(1)	ERCOT will periodically perform or cause to be performed procedures to assess the risk management framework of Counter-Parties, including its implementation.  
(2)	ERCOT may retain a third party either to assess the sufficiency of the Counter-Party’s risk management framework or to provide guidance and advice as to what constitutes appropriate content with respect to generally accepted risk management practices in their respective markets, commensurate and proportional in sophistication, scope and frequency to the volume of transactions and the nature and extent of risk taken by the Counter-Party.  
(3)	ERCOT shall, identify the nature and scope of generally accepted risk management practices in their respective markets by which Counter-Party risk management frameworks will be assessed.  Key elements will include:
(a)	The risk management framework is documented in a risk policy addressing market and credit risks that has been approved by a Counter-Party’s risk management function which includes appropriate corporate persons or bodies that are independent of the Counter-Party’s trading functions, such as a risk management committee, a designated risk officer, participant Counter-Party’s board or board committee, or, if applicable, a board or committee of the Counter-Party’s parent company.
(b)	A Counter-Party maintains an organizational structure with clearly defined roles and responsibilities that clearly segregate trading and risk control functions. 
(c)	There is clarity of authority specifying the transactions into which traders are allowed to enter.
(d)	A Counter-Party ensures that traders have adequate training and/or experience relative to their delegations of authority in systems and the markets in which they transact.
(e)	As appropriate, a Counter-Party has risk limits in place to control risk exposures.
(f)	A Counter-Party has reporting in place to ensure risks are adequately communicated throughout the organization.
(g)	A Counter-Party has processes in place for independent confirmation of executed transactions.
(h)	A Counter-Party performs a periodic valuation or mark-to-market of risk positions, as appropriate.
(4)	The ERCOT Board may approve minimum standards under an Other Binding Document. 
(5)	Upon notice of being selected for verification, a Counter-Party will make available or submit to ERCOT, or a third party acting on ERCOT’s behalf, such documentation as is necessary to provide evidence of the sufficiency and implementation of its risk management framework.  Such information may include, but not be limited to, documents of the following nature:  risk policies, organizational charts, Delegations of Authority, training records, risk limit structure, reporting frameworks, and relevant procedures, all in a level of detail acceptable to ERCOT.  Along with such documentation, a Counter-Party will provide a written explanation to ERCOT or its agent of how its risk management framework conforms to the risk management standards noted above.  Requested information and documents must be made available for review by ERCOT, or a third party acting on ERCOT’s behalf, 30 days after Notice of the request.  ERCOT will provide Counter-Party Notice of inadequate documentation and will give Counter-Party ten Business Days to correct the inadequacy.  At ERCOT’s sole discretion, these deadlines may be extended on a case-by-case basis.
(6)	If necessary, Counter-Parties will support the verification process by, among other things, making appropriate personnel available for interviews, permitting on-site observation of credit and risk management processes and procedures, and providing written responses to written inquiries on a timely basis.  A Counter-Party may request that ERCOT or a third party performing verification on ERCOT’s behalf perform the review on-site at the Counter-Party’s location.  Any resulting additional expenses will in this case be the sole responsibility of the Counter-Party making the request.   
(7)	ERCOT will perform procedures to verify the risk management framework at least annually for any Counter-Party if that Counter-Party or its parent:
(a)	Has had one or more late payments or represents a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) or CRR Account Holder that has short-paid Settlement Invoices in the year preceding the date of the annual certificate; and
(b)	Has had exposure in CRR Obligations in the ERCOT CRR market during the year preceding the date of the annual certificate. 
(i)	Notwithstanding the above, ERCOT will perform risk management framework verification procedures on other Counter-Parties at its sole discretion. 
(8)	Upon completion of its review, ERCOT will notify the Counter-Party whether or not any material deficiencies were noted.  If material deficiencies exist, ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, establish in consultation with the Counter-Party, a remediation plan for any deficiencies.  The remediation period allowed for specific deficiencies should be consistent with the severity of those deficiencies and may have incremental deadlines.  The total remediation period will not exceed 90 days, unless extended, at ERCOT’s sole discretion, on a case-by-case basis.    
(9)	Risk management deficiencies remaining beyond the ERCOT-defined remediation periods constitute a material breach under the Counter-Party’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement as provided for in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement.  Upon a material breach, ERCOT may, in addition to any other rights or remedies ERCOT has under any agreement, these Protocols or at common law, suspend any or all future activities in the ERCOT market, pending remediation of deficiencies.  An action by ERCOT to suspend activities in the ERCOT market is subject to the provisions of Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Process.  
(10)	Participation in ERCOT markets is contingent on verification by ERCOT, or by a third party acting on ERCOT’s behalf, that the proposed measures have been implemented.  
(11)	If a Counter-Party provides evidence that its risk management framework has been deemed sufficient for transacting in another Regional Transmission Operator/Independent System Operator market in the United States, ERCOT may elect to forego verification processes.
(12)	In conjunction with providing its annual certificate, if a Counter-Party certifies that there has been no material change in its risk management capabilities since the framework was last verified, ERCOT may elect to forego verification.  ERCOT may not forego verification more than once in any 24-month period.
16.17	Exemption for Qualified Scheduling Entities Participating Only in Emergency Response Service
(1)	A Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that is not also registered as a Congestion Revenue Rights (CRR) Account Holder, that does not participate in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) or Real-Time Market (RTM), that represents only Emergency Response Service (ERS) Resources, and whose Total Potential Exposure (TPE) (as calculated in Section 16.11.4.1, Determination of Total Potential Exposure for a Counter-Party) is zero may request designation as an ERS-only QSE.  
(2)	A QSE must submit a written request for designation as an ERS-only QSE at least five Business Days before the desired effective date of the designation.  
(3)	Upon determining that the QSE has addressed all financial risk to ERCOT’s satisfaction, ERCOT shall designate the QSE as an ERS-only QSE, and shall notify the QSE of that designation in writing.
(4)	Except as provided in paragraph (5) below, an ERS-only QSE is exempt from the following requirements: 
(a)	The requirement to maintain sufficient collateral under Sections 16.11.1, ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements for Counter-Parties, and 16.11.5, Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Creditworthiness and Credit Exposure by ERCOT;
(b)	The requirement to submit financial statements and any notice of material changes under paragraph (1) of Section 16.11.5; and
(c)	All requirements under Section 16.16, Additional Counter-Party Qualification Requirements.
(5)	If ERCOT posts an RTM True-Up Statement or RTM Resettlement Statement providing for a resettlement of any ERS Time Period, and as a result of that resettlement alone, ERCOT determines that an ERS-only QSE has a positive TPE as calculated in Section 16.11.4.1, ERCOT will require that QSE to comply with Section 16.11.5, excluding paragraph (1), until its TPE again equals zero.  If the QSE fails to pay when due any payment or Financial Security obligation owed to ERCOT, ERCOT may terminate the QSE’s ERS-only status.
(6)	ERCOT shall ensure that its systems prevent participation by ERS-only QSEs in the DAM and RTM.
(7)	A QSE must request termination of its ERS-only status in writing.  Termination of ERS-only status will be effective only upon ERCOT’s written confirmation that the QSE has satisfied all creditworthiness requirements applicable to QSEs.
(8)	Nothing in this Section affects an ERS-only QSE’s obligation under paragraph (6) of Section 16.2.1, Criteria for Qualification as a Qualified Scheduling Entity, to provide ERCOT notice of any material change that could adversely affect the reliability or safety of the ERCOT System.  Additionally, ERCOT may at any time require any ERS-only QSE to demonstrate that its risk management policies and practices are sufficient to ensure that it will be capable of meeting its ERS performance requirements during any ERS Standard Contract Term for which it has submitted an offer or for which it is committed to provide ERS.
[NPRR857:  Insert Section 16.18 below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities; and renumber accordingly:] 
16.18	Registration of a Direct Current Tie Operator
(1)	Each Entity that operates a Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) shall register as a Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) with ERCOT.  To register as a DCTO, an Entity must execute a Standard Form Market Participant Agreement (using the form provided in Section 22, Attachment A, Standard Form Market Participant Agreement), designate a DCTO Authorized Representative and contacts, confirm that it is either registered with ERCOT as a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) that is subject to a Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT)-approved code of conduct or is subject to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)-approved standards of conduct, and be capable of performing the functions of a DCTO, as applicable, as described in these Protocols.
16.18	Cybersecurity Incident Notification
(1)	Each Market Participant shall designate and maintain a Cybersecurity Contact for communications with ERCOT with respect to Cybersecurity Incidents.  Registered Market Participants shall use the Notice of Change of Information form, as provided for in Section 23, Form E, Notice of Change of Information, to designate a Cybersecurity Contact, and maintain updated Cybersecurity Contact information.
(2)	As soon as practicable upon determination of a Cybersecurity Incident on a Market Participant’s computer network or system that interfaces with an ERCOT computer network or system, the Market Participant shall notify ERCOT. 
(3)	For purposes of this section, in the event a Market Participant delegates authority to an agent, the Market Participant shall ensure that the agent is obligated to notify the Market Participant, as soon as practicable, upon the agent’s discovery of a Cybersecurity Incident on the agent’s computer network or system that interfaces with an ERCOT computer network or system. 
(4)	A Market Participant shall notify ERCOT, as soon as practicable, upon the agent’s notification to the Market Participant of a Cybersecurity Incident on the agent’s computer network or system that interfaces with an ERCOT computer network or system for the purpose of transacting with ERCOT on behalf of the Market Participant.  If a Market Participant’s agent is also registered with ERCOT as a Market Participant, only the agent is required to report a Cybersecurity Incident on its computer network or system that interfaces with an ERCOT computer network or system to ERCOT.  The failure of an agent to notify the Market Participant of a Cybersecurity Incident shall not constitute a violation of this section if the Market Participant can demonstrate that a reporting mandate exists in a contract between the Market Participant and its agent.
(5)	In order to notify ERCOT of a Cybersecurity Incident, Market Participants shall submit a Notice of Cybersecurity Incident (Section 23, Form O, Notice of Cybersecurity Incident) to NCSI@ercot.com.  If, as a result of the Cybersecurity Incident, a Market Participant is unable to securely send the Notice of Cybersecurity Incident to ERCOT, the Market Participant shall call the ERCOT HelpDesk at (512) 248-6800 and/or its Client Service Representative to request a secure means for sending the Notice of Cybersecurity Incident to ERCOT.
(a)	A Market Participant may designate a temporary cybersecurity contact for a particular Cybersecurity Incident by providing contact information for such individual in the Notice of Cybersecurity Incident form submitted to ERCOT. Should a Market Participant designate a temporary cybersecurity contact in its Notice of Cybersecurity Incident, ERCOT will direct communications concerning that particular Cybersecurity Incident to the temporary cybersecurity contact.
(b)	Following initial notification, Market Participant shall provide ERCOT with updated information concerning the Cybersecurity Incident as it becomes available, and upon ERCOT’s request, until ERCOT provides notice to Market Participant that information regarding the Cybersecurity Incident is no longer needed.  To the extent practicable, the Notice of Cybersecurity Incident form shall be used to provide ERCOT with updated information.
(6)	In the event ERCOT determines that a Cybersecurity Incident may materially impact computer networks or systems of ERCOT and/or Market Participants, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice to all Market Participants with general information concerning the Cybersecurity Incident.  ERCOT may utilize the information contained in a Notice of Cybersecurity Incident, except that in no event shall the Market Notice contain information identifiable to a specific Market Participant or ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII).
16.19	Designation of Transmission Operators 
(1)	Each Transmission Service Provider (TSP) shall either register as a Transmission Operator (TO) or designate one or more other Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) as its TO for each Transmission Facility owned by the TSP.  Each DSP shall either register as a TO or designate another TDSP as its TO.  A TDSP shall designate another Entity as its TO only with the written consent of that other Entity.  
(2)	A TO shall have full authority to act on behalf of the designating TDSP in the performance of all TO responsibilities provided in the ERCOT Protocols or Other Binding Documents, including effectuating any Load-shed that may be necessary during any Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) event, Under-Frequency Load Shed (UFLS) event, or Under-Voltage Load Shed (UVLS) event.  
(3)	To qualify for designation as a TO, a TDSP shall be connected to the ERCOT Wide Area Network (WAN) and maintain 24-hour, seven-day-per-week operations and Hotline communications with ERCOT.  A TO has a responsibility to answer each TO Hotline call.
(4)	A TSP shall enter a TO designation for each Transmission Facility it owns in the Network Operations Model.  Any designation or change to that designation shall be submitted to ERCOT within the time required for submitting physical changes to the Network Operations Model specified in paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  Any TSP designated as a TO for another TSP’s facilities may unilaterally reject or resign from that designation by providing written notice to the designating TSP and the TSP shall promptly update the TO designation in the Network Operations Model for the affected Transmission Facility.  
(5)	ERCOT shall post a Transmission Operator Designation Form on the ERCOT website.  A Distribution Service Provider (DSP) may designate a TO or make any change to its designation, including revoking a TO designation, by properly completing the Transmission Operator Designation Form and submitting it via email to ERCOT with a copy provided to the TDSP designated as TO.  Any such change shall be submitted to ERCOT at least 30 days before the change becomes effective.  The designation of a TO shall not be effective unless the Transmission Operator Designation Form has been signed by an officer or other Authorized Representative of the designating DSP and the TDSP designated as TO.  
(6)	A TO for a DSP may unilaterally resign from a designation as TO by submitting a properly completed Transmission Operator Designation Form to ERCOT reflecting the TO’s resignation of its TO status at least 30 days before the resignation becomes effective.  The resigning TO shall provide simultaneous notice of the resignation to the DSP it represents.   
(7)	On the effective date of a TO’s resignation, the DSP previously represented by the resigning TO shall be deemed its own TO and shall assume all TO responsibilities unless and until it has properly designated another TDSP as its TO.   
[NPRR1045:  Replace Section 16.19 above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR857:]
16.19	Designation of Transmission Operators 
(1)	Each Transmission Service Provider (TSP) shall either register as a Transmission Operator (TO) or designate one or more other Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) as its TO for each Transmission Facility owned by the TSP.  Each Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO) shall designate a TDSP as its TO for each DC Tie it operates.  Each Distribution Service Provider (DSP) shall either register as a TO or designate another TDSP as its TO.  A TDSP or DCTO shall designate another Entity as its TO only with the written consent of that other Entity.  
(2)	A TO shall have full authority to act on behalf of the designating TDSP or DCTO in the performance of all TO responsibilities provided in the ERCOT Protocols or Other Binding Documents, including effectuating any Load-shed that may be necessary during any Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) event, Under-Frequency Load Shed (UFLS) event, or Under-Voltage Load Shed (UVLS) event.  
(3)	To qualify for designation as a TO, a TDSP shall be connected to the ERCOT Wide Area Network (WAN) and maintain 24-hour, seven-day-per-week operations and Hotline communications with ERCOT.  A TO has a responsibility to answer each TO Hotline call. 
(4)	A TSP or DCTO shall enter a TO designation for each Transmission Facility it owns in the Network Operations Model.  Any designation or change to that designation shall be submitted to ERCOT within the time required for submitting physical changes to the Network Operations Model specified in paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  Any TSP designated as a TO for another TSP or DCTO’s facilities may unilaterally reject or resign from that designation by providing written notice to the designating TSP and the TSP shall promptly update the TO designation in the Network Operations Model for the affected Transmission Facility.  
(5)	ERCOT shall post a Transmission Operator Designation Form on the ERCOT website.  A DSP may designate a TO or make any change to its designation, including revoking a TO designation, by properly completing the Transmission Operator Designation Form and submitting it via email to ERCOT with a copy provided to the TDSP designated as TO.  Any such change shall be submitted to ERCOT at least 30 days before the change becomes effective.  The designation of a TO shall not be effective unless the Transmission Operator Designation Form has been signed by an officer or other Authorized Representative of the designating DSP or DCTO and the TDSP designated as TO.  
(6)	A TO for a DSP may unilaterally resign from a designation as TO by submitting a properly completed Transmission Operator Designation Form to ERCOT reflecting the TO’s resignation of its TO status at least 30 days before the resignation becomes effective.  The resigning TO shall provide simultaneous notice of the resignation to the DSP it represents.   
(7)	On the effective date of a TO’s resignation, the DSP previously represented by the resigning TO shall be deemed its own TO and shall assume all TO responsibilities unless and until it has properly designated another TDSP as its TO.   

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 17:  Market Monitoring and Data Collection

June 1, 2021




 
17	MARKET MONITORING AND DATA COLLECTION	17-1
17.1	Overview	17-1
17.2	Objectives and Scope of Market Monitoring Data Collection	17-1
17.3	Market Data Collection and Use	17-1
17.3.1	Information System Data Collection and Retention	17-1
17.3.2	Data Categories and Handling Procedures	17-2
17.3.3	Accuracy of Data Collection	17-2
17.3.4	PUCT Staff and IMM Review of Data Collection	17-2
17.3.5	Data Retention	17-3
17.4	Provision of Data to Individual Market Participants	17-3
17.5	Reports to PUCT Staff, IMM, and the FERC	17-3
17.6	Changes to Facilitate Market Operation	17-3


	

 
17	MARKET MONITORING AND DATA COLLECTION
17.1	Overview
(1)	The Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), with the assistance of the Independent Market Monitor (IMM) established in accordance with PUCT rules, has the ultimate responsibility for market oversight in ERCOT.  ERCOT shall assist the PUCT and the IMM by performing the data collection functions specified in this Section.
17.2	Objectives and Scope of Market Monitoring Data Collection
(1)	The market monitoring data collection is designed to assist the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) and Independent Market Monitor (IMM) to:
(a)	Protect Market Participants and Customers from the exercise of market power and from market manipulations;
(b)	Ensure that there is effective and persistent competition for events that are not mitigated; 
(c)	Ensure that the market design and implementation are efficient;  
(d)	Guard against inefficiencies in the market and market manipulations; 
(e)	Ensure a justifiable and reasonable price impact; and 
(f)	Ensure that data posted on the ERCOT website fulfills the objective of transparency of market information consistent with Section 1.3, Confidentiality. 
17.3	Market Data Collection and Use
(1)	ERCOT shall establish procedures to ensure that the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Staff and Independent Market Monitor (IMM) may access all data maintained by ERCOT and deemed necessary by the PUCT staff and IMM to perform its market oversight activities, pursuant to subsection (e) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.362, Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Governance. The following sections explain the collection, handling, verification, and retention of information by ERCOT that is accessible by the PUCT Staff and IMM. 
17.3.1	Information System Data Collection and Retention 
(1)	ERCOT shall develop and operate an information system to collect and to store data required by these Protocols.  ERCOT shall provide adequate communication equipment and necessary software packages to enable the PUCT Staff and the IMM to establish electronic access to the information system and to facilitate the development and application of quantitative tools necessary for the market monitoring function.  Data from source systems must be replicated near Real-Time and available for remote query by the PUCT Staff and the IMM until data is available in the Data Archive and Data Warehouse.  The Data Warehouse and Data Archive must be designed to accommodate a remote query function by the PUCT Staff and the IMM at any time.
17.3.2	Data Categories and Handling Procedures
(1)	ERCOT shall develop, and refine based on experience, a detailed catalog of all data categories that it can acquire and the procedures that it will use to handle such data, including procedures for protecting Protected Information and ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII).  This catalog must include documentation of the meaning of the data elements, and must be updated upon any change in systems (e.g. Energy and Market Management System (EMMS) or Settlements) that affect the data elements or interpretation of these elements.
17.3.3	Accuracy of Data Collection
(1)	ERCOT shall continuously apply appropriate procedures for the accurate collection of data into the Data Warehouse and accurate communication of that data for use by the PUCT Staff and IMM.  By written notice, ERCOT may require Market Participants to verify the accuracy of data previously submitted to ERCOT.
(2)	ERCOT shall report to the PUCT and IMM any failure by a Market Participant to provide accurate and complete information in the manner and time requested under these Protocols, and that failure may be treated as grounds for action against the Market Participant.
(3)	ERCOT shall cause to be performed an audit on a periodic basis no less than once every three years of ERCOT data, data collection, and data documentation for adequacy and accuracy.  The auditor will provide recommendations to address potential areas of improvements.
17.3.4	PUCT Staff and IMM Review of Data Collection
(1)	The PUCT Staff and IMM may review the catalogs of information and data collection verification criteria, developed by ERCOT according to these Protocols, and may propose such changes, additions, or deletions to the catalogs and criteria as it sees fit.  In so doing, the PUCT Staff or IMM may require database items or evaluation criteria to be included in the pertinent catalogs.  
17.3.5	Data Retention
(1)	Data stored in the Data Warehouse and Data Archive must be available online for four years from ERCOT’s creation or receipt of the data.  Data stored in the Data Archive must be maintained by ERCOT for a total of seven years from ERCOT’s creation or receipt of the data.
17.4	Provision of Data to Individual Market Participants
(1)	Data requested by a Market Participant that is not available to the requesting Market Participant via the Market Information System (MIS) may be provided by ERCOT to the requesting Market Participant subject to constraints on ERCOT’s resources and applicable restrictions on Protected Information and ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII), but this Section is not an authorization to release Protected Information or ECEII of other Entities.  ERCOT shall accommodate these requests on a nondiscriminatory basis.
17.5	Reports to PUCT Staff, IMM, and the FERC 
(1)	ERCOT shall make data available to the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Staff and Independent Market Monitor (IMM).  PUCT Staff or IMM may require, after consultation with ERCOT, changes to the form of the data, limited to data ERCOT is reasonably able to collect.
(2)	ERCOT shall submit reports in accordance with its regulatory obligations under the applicable rules, laws, and orders of the PUCT and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
17.6	Changes to Facilitate Market Operation 
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate its system operation and market performance to identify potential areas for improvements.  This evaluation must consider impacts on system operations and market performance of Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) rules, these Protocols, Operating Guides, and any other ERCOT operating procedures.  Upon identification of areas that require improvements, ERCOT shall take appropriate actions to make those improvements including revising its procedures, proposing changes to these Protocols through the process specified in Section 21, Revision Request Process, and submitting recommendations to the PUCT or other appropriate Governmental Authorities.  In performing these tasks, ERCOT shall seek comments and recommendations from the Independent Market Monitor (IMM), PUCT Staff, Market Participants, and other interested Entities. 

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 18:  Load Profiling

April 1, 2022



 
18	Load Profiling	18-1
18.1	Overview	18-1
18.2	Methodology	18-1
18.2.1	Guidelines for Development of Load Profiles	18-1
18.2.2	Load Profiles for Non-Interval Metered Loads	18-2
18.2.2.1	Load Profiles for Non-Interval Metered Loads Without Distributed Generation	18-2
18.2.2.2	Load Profiles for Non-Interval Metered Loads With Distributed Generation	18-2
18.2.3	Load Profiles for Non-Metered Loads	18-3
18.2.4	Default Load Profiles for Interval Data Recorders	18-3
18.2.5	Identification of Weather Zones and Load Profile Types	18-3
18.2.6	Daily Profile Creation Process	18-3
18.2.7	Maintenance of the Load Profile Models	18-3
18.2.8	Adjustments and Changes to Load Profile Development	18-3
18.2.9	ERCOT Responsibilities in Support of Load Profiling	18-4
18.3	Posting	18-4
18.3.1	Methodology Information	18-4
18.3.2	Load Profiling Models	18-5
18.3.3	Load Profiles	18-5
18.4	Assignment of Load Profile ID	18-5
18.4.1	Development of Load Profile ID Assignment Table	18-5
18.4.2	Load Profile ID Assignment	18-6
18.4.3	Validation of Load Profile Type and Weather Zone Assignments	18-6
18.4.3.1	Validation Process	18-6
18.4.3.2	Correction Procedure	18-7
18.4.4	Assignment of Weather Zones to Electric Service Identifiers	18-7
18.5	Additional Responsibilities	18-7
18.5.1	ERCOT Responsibilities	18-7
18.5.2	Market Participant Responsibilities	18-7
18.6	Installation and Use of Interval Data Recorders	18-8
18.6.1	Interval Data Recorder Mandatory Installation Requirements	18-8
18.7	Transition of Interval Data Recorder Meter to AMS Profile Type	18-8
 
18	LOAD PROFILING
18.1	Overview
(1)	The ERCOT retail market requires a 15-minute Settlement Interval.  Load Profiling provides a cost-effective way of estimating and allocating 15-minute Load for Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs).  This Section details how Load Profiling will be implemented in ERCOT when ERCOT does not receive 15-minute Settlement Interval consumption data and enables the accounting of energy usage in the market Settlement process.
18.2	Methodology
(1)	A Load Profiling Methodology is the fundamental basis on which Load Profiles are created.  The implementation of a Load Profiling Methodology may require statistical Sampling, engineering methods, econometric modeling, or other approaches.  All Load Profiles shall conform to the ERCOT-defined Settlement Interval length.
(2) 	ERCOT has developed Load Profiles for: 
(a)	Non-interval metered Loads;
(b)	Non-Metered Loads; and
(c)        Interval Data Recorders (IDRs) including:
(i) 	Advanced Meters; and        
(ii) 	IDR Meters.
(3)	The following Load Profiling Methodologies are used:
Type of Load	Load Profiling Methodology
Non-interval metered	Adjusted Static Models
Non-interval metered with Distributed Generation (DG) 	Adjusted Static Models and engineering estimates
Non-metered	Engineering estimates
18.2.1	Guidelines for Development of Load Profiles
(1)	In developing Load Profiles, ERCOT shall strive to achieve an optimal combination of the following:
(a)	Give no unfair advantage to any Entity;
(b)	Maximize usability by minimizing the total number of Load Profiles without compromising accuracy and cost effectiveness;
(c)	Minimize the Load Profiles’ contribution to Unaccounted For Energy (UFE) over all Settlement Intervals, paying particular attention to higher cost periods;
(d)	Reflect reasonably homogenous groups, with respect to Load shape and likely supply costs;
(e)	Develop Load Profiles that are distinctly different;
(f)	Develop Load Profiles for areas with incomplete Load data utilizing data from other sources, taking into account similarities and differences in Load;
(g)	Accommodate development of unique rate classes;
(h)	Use the most accurate Load research data available; and
(i)	Develop Load Profiles based on readily identifiable parameters that are not subject to frequent change.
18.2.2	Load Profiles for Non-Interval Metered Loads
18.2.2.1	Load Profiles for Non-Interval Metered Loads Without Distributed Generation
(1)	Load Profiles for non-interval metered Loads are created using statistical models developed from appropriate Load research sample data.  These models are referred to as adjusted static.  These model equations relate daily Settlement Interval Load patterns to relevant weather descriptors such as maximum and minimum dry-bulb temperature and humidity.  Other daily characteristics such as day-of-the-week and sunrise/sunset times are also employed.
18.2.2.2	Load Profiles for Non-Interval Metered Loads With Distributed Generation
(1)	Load Profiles for non-interval metered Loads that utilize DG (e.g., PhotoVoltaic (PV) or wind) will be created using a hybrid approach.  At least a portion of the Load Profile will be based on Adjusted Static Models, while engineering estimates and/or generation models may be integrated as well or otherwise utilized.
18.2.3	Load Profiles for Non-Metered Loads
(1)	Load Profiles for Non-Metered Loads, e.g. streetlights, traffic signals, security lighting, billboards, and parking lots are created using engineering estimates based on known criteria, such as hours of operation, with appropriate variation in sunrise/sunset times.  Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and/or Distribution Service Providers (DSPs) are responsible for providing monthly consumption (kWh) for non-metered Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs).
18.2.4	Default Load Profiles for Interval Data Recorders
(1)	Default Load Profiles for IDRs will only be used when no historic Customer-specific interval data is available for Settlements.  The Adjusted Static Model methodology will be used to create these Load Profiles.
(2)	For details on the method to estimate IDR data for Settlement purposes, refer to Section 11, Data Acquisition and Aggregation.
18.2.5	Identification of Weather Zones and Load Profile Types
(1)	ERCOT, in coordination with the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee, will identify Weather Zones and Load Profile Types based on an analysis of Load data, weather data, and sunrise/sunset data.
18.2.6	Daily Profile Creation Process
(1)	ERCOT will maintain Load Profile Models to create profiles for the target Settlement day (backcast) and three days following the current day (forecast).  ERCOT will automatically collect actual weather conditions and weather forecasts to enable the creation of the Load Profiles.  ERCOT will maintain sunrise/sunset information for creating Load Profiles that require these parameters.
18.2.7	Maintenance of the Load Profile Models
(1)	Upon request from the appropriate TAC subcommittee, ERCOT shall review the validity and accuracy of the Load Profile Models.  ERCOT shall make the necessary recommendation to alleviate any situations whereby Load Profiles are no longer representative.
18.2.8	Adjustments and Changes to Load Profile Development
(1)	Any changes to the Load Profiling Methodology, existing Load Profiles, and/or creation of new Load Profiles shall be in accordance with Load Profiling Guide Section 2.4, Load Profiling Guide Revision Procedure
(2)	Section 9.18, Profile Development Cost Recovery Fee for a Non-ERCOT Sponsored Load Profile Segment, describes the process for compensating the originator of a Load Profile Segment change request by Retail Electric Providers (REPs) wishing to subscribe to the Load Profile Segment.
(3)	ERCOT shall give at least 150 days’ Notice to all Market Participants prior to market implementation of any change to the Load Profiling Methodology, existing Load Profiles, or when any additional Load Profiles are developed.  This Notice shall include a Load Profile change implementation timeline, which specifies dates on which key events during the Load Profile change process will take place.  Upon any change in Load Profile Types, TSPs and/or DSPs shall send any revised Load Profile ID assignments required by the change to the registration system within the implementation timeline.  After the new Load Profile(s) becomes available, changes to Load Profile Types will be effective on the next meter read date for each ESI ID.
(4)	If one or more Load Profiles require changes to reduce excessive UFE, as determined by the appropriate TAC subcommittee, TAC may provide a shorter Notice period and implementation date, than otherwise provided herein, for such required changes to Load Profiles.  If the Load Profiling Methodology requires changes to reduce excessive UFE, as determined by the appropriate TAC subcommittee, TAC may provide an expedited Notice period and implementation date.
18.2.9	ERCOT Responsibilities in Support of Load Profiling
(1)	ERCOT is responsible for the development and maintenance of Load Profiles used in the ERCOT market.  ERCOT shall follow the Load Profiling and Load research rules and procedures as specified in the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) rules.
18.3	Posting
(1)	ERCOT will make available to Market Participants the following information in a timely manner, subject to confidentiality agreements, proprietary arrangements, and Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) rules.
18.3.1	Methodology Information
(1)	Upon request, ERCOT will provide a complete description of all supporting Load Profile Models, documentation and data used in preparation of Load Profiles, including:
(a)	The historic Load data used to create the Load Profiles;
(b)	Average interval accuracy of each Load Profile Model;
(c)	Weather information;
(d)	Sunrise/sunset information; and
(e)	Any other data used for Load Profile development.
18.3.2	Load Profiling Models
(1)	ERCOT will make available the Load Profile Models used to produce the forecast and backcast profiles for the Settlement process.  The Load Profile Models shall be accessible via the ERCOT website in a downloadable format.
18.3.3	Load Profiles
(1)	ERCOT will publish Load Profile data from the Load Profile creation process, in accordance with Section 18.2.6, Daily Profile Creation Process, to the ERCOT website and through the common application program interface (API).  Load Profile data will be made available to Market Participants for a period of two years.
(2)	ERCOT will post to the ERCOT website by 1000 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) each Business Day, forecasted Load Profiles for the three following days for each Load Profile Type and Weather Zone.  Backcast Load Profiles for each Load Profile Type and Weather Zone will be available by 1000 CPT of the second Business Day following the backcast day.  No data will be provided that will allow identification of individual Customers.
18.4	Assignment of Load Profile ID
(1)	Each Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) is required to be associated with an appropriate Load Profile ID.  Upon request, ERCOT and the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee shall review the Load Profile ID assignment process, make recommendations for enhancements, and evaluate the integration of the validation and assignment processes.  This Section details the process of assigning a Load Profile ID to each ESI ID.
18.4.1	Development of Load Profile ID Assignment Table
(1)	ERCOT shall develop a cross-reference table of all Load Profile IDs used in the ERCOT market.  The table shall clearly state class relationship to Load Profile Type.  This information shall be made accessible on the ERCOT website.  The cross-reference information shall be compiled and expressed in clear, unambiguous language, and in a manner that will minimize Load Profile ID assignment disputes.
18.4.2	Load Profile ID Assignment
(1)	All Load Profile ID assignments shall conform with the valid combinations within the Load Profiling Guide Appendix D, Profile Decision Tree.
(2)	Should there be any change in Load Profile ID assignment to any ESI ID, it will be the responsibility of the Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and/or Distribution Service Provider (DSP) to submit those changes to ERCOT.
(3)       Competitive Retailers (CRs) may dispute a Load Profile ID assignment through the process described in Load Profiling Guide Section 14, Load Profile ID Dispute Procedure.
(4)       TSPs and/or DSPs shall change the assignment of a Load Profile ID based on a dispute outcome finding in favor of a CR.  If required to change an assignment, TSPs and/or DSPs must correct the assignment in their system and the ERCOT Customer registration system within three Business Days.
18.4.3	Validation of Load Profile Type and Weather Zone Assignments
(1)	In this Section validation shall mean performing checks to ensure correct assignment of Load Profile Types and Weather Zones to ESI IDs.
18.4.3.1	Validation Process
 (1)	Validation of Load Profile Type and Weather Zone assignments, at a minimum, will be performed as follows: 
(a)	Initial Load Profile ID assignment for opt-in Entities; 
(b)	When a change is made in the Load Profile Type or Weather Zone assignment; 
(c)	One time per year for the Business Load Profiles; and
(d)	At least one time every three years for the Residential Load Profiles during the Load Profile validation process.
(2)	Details of the validation process will be specified in the Load Profiling Guide Section 11, Validation of Load Profile ID.
(3)	Any Market Participant may request temporary changes to the process for validating Load Profile IDs to address unusual circumstances.  Such change requests shall be recommended by the appropriate TAC subcommittee and approved by TAC.  Change requests as a result of an extreme event such as a hurricane or ice storm may be approved directly by TAC.  Such requests, if approved by the TAC, shall be in effect only for the requested year.
18.4.3.2	Correction Procedure
(1)	TSPs and/or DSPs are responsible for investigating each ESI ID identified by ERCOT or a Market Participant as having a potentially incorrect Load Profile ID assignment.  Market Participants may dispute an assignment of a Load Profile ID as described in Load Profiling Guide Section 14, Load Profile ID Dispute Procedure.
18.4.4	Assignment of Weather Zones to Electric Service Identifiers
(1)	TSPs and /or DSPs will assign each ESI ID to a Weather Zone, based on service address ZIP code.
(2)	ERCOT will post to the ERCOT website a mapping of a Weather Zone to appropriate Customer registration element used in assigning Weather Zones.
18.5	Additional Responsibilities
(1)	This Section addresses responsibilities for Load Profiling not specified in other sections of the Protocols.
18.5.1	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT will develop, administer, and maintain Load Profiles in accordance with these Protocols.  There may be extenuating circumstances including, but not limited to, prolonged widespread power outages that may necessitate ERCOT’s discretion for adjusting non-Interval Data Recorder (IDR) backcasted Load Profiles.  If an event requires ERCOT to utilize this discretion, ERCOT shall send a Market Notice within three Business Days of making the adjustments and report its action(s) and reason(s) for doing so to the next meeting of the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee.
(2)	Any disputes related to the accuracy, appropriateness, or adjustment of Load Profiles shall be handled in accordance with Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process.
18.5.2	Market Participant Responsibilities
(1)	Market Participants shall use the appropriate TAC subcommittee as a forum for their input in the development and refinement of Load Profiles.
(2)	Competitive Retailers (CRs) shall be responsible for reviewing any assignment of Load Profiles to Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) they represent.
18.6	Installation and Use of Interval Data Recorders
18.6.1	Interval Data Recorder Mandatory Installation Requirements
(1)	Interval Data Recorders (IDRs) are required and shall be installed and utilized for Settlement of Premises having either:
(a)	A peak Demand greater than 700 kW (or 700 kVA in CenterPoint Energy’s service territory); or
(b)	Service provided at transmission voltage (above 60 kV).
(2)	All non-metered Loads such as street lighting, regardless of the aggregation level, shall not be required to install IDRs under the IDR Mandatory Installation Requirements.  These Loads shall be settled using Load Profiles.
(3)	Municipally Owned Utilities (MOUs) and Electric Cooperatives (ECs) that opt-in to Customer Choice must install IDRs at all Premises subject to the IDR Mandatory Installation Requirements for metering prior to the effective date of their participation in the testing and integration requirements of ERCOT systems for Customer Choice.
18.7	Transition of Interval Data Recorder Meter to AMS Profile Type
(1)	At a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider’s (TDSP’s) discretion, or upon a Customer’s request and TDSP’s approval, a TDSP shall:

(a)	Utilize a provisioned Advanced Meter or similarly functional meter for Customer’s Premise;
(b)	Assign the appropriate Load Profile, other than one with a BUSIDRRQ Profile Type Code, to Premise’s Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID); 
(c)	Submit Settlement Quality Meter Data, which will be used for Settlement, using the ERCOT specified file format for the interval data only in accordance with Retail Market Guide Section 7.15, Advanced Meter Interval Data File Format and Submission; 
(d)	If the ESI ID will be transitioning to an Advanced Metering System (AMS) Profile Type other than BUSLRG or BUSLRGDG, submit a MarkeTrak issue to notify ERCOT; and
(e)	Submit the appropriate Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) transaction notifying the Competitive Retailer (CR) of the Load Profile change.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 19:  Texas Standard Electronic Transaction

December 1, 2024

 
19	Texas Standard Electronic Transaction	1
19.1	Overview	1
19.2	Methodology	1
19.3	Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Definitions	2
19.3.1	Defined Texas Standard Electronic Transactions	2
19.4	Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Change Control Process	14
19.4.1	Technical Advisory Committee Subcommittee Responsibilities	14
19.4.2	ERCOT Responsibilities	14
19.4.3	Texas SET Change Control Dispute Process	15
19.4.4	Submission of Proposed Changes	15
19.4.5	Urgent Change Request	15
19.5	Texas Standard Electronic Transactions Acceptable Character Set	16
19.5.1	Alphanumeric Field(s)	16
19.6	Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Envelope Standards	16
19.6.1	ERCOT Validation	16
19.7	Advanced Meter Interval Data Format and Submission	16
19.8	Retail Market Testing	16
 
19	TEXAS STANDARD ELECTRONIC TRANSACTION
(1)	This Section of the Protocols contains an overview of the purpose and scope of the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET), and a series of definitions identifying the use of each transaction.  It also refers to the full Texas SET Implementation Guides, which are posted on the ERCOT website.
19.1	Overview
(1)	Texas Standard Electronic Transactions (TX SETs) provide the mechanism that enables and facilitates the retail business processes in the deregulated Texas electric market.  The Texas SET Implementation Guides and Texas SET Change Control process documents shall be posted on the ERCOT website.  The Texas SET Implementation Guides shall serve as the standard for the applicable TX SETs among all Market Participants and ERCOT.
(2)	This Section shall cover:
(a)	Transactions between Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) (refers to all TDSPs unless otherwise specified), Competitive Retailers (CRs) and ERCOT;
(b)	Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee and ERCOT responsibilities; and
(c)	Texas SET Change Control process.
19.2	Methodology
(1)	In developing and maintaining the implementation guides, the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee shall:
(a)	Develop standardized transactions, which support documented ERCOT market business requirements across all Market Participants and ERCOT;
(b)	Develop Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) transactions using American National Standards Institute Accredited Standards Committee X12 (ANSI ASC X12) standards;
(c)	Develop Extensible Markup Language (XML) transactions as needed;
(d)	Develop other spreadsheets, templates, comma separated value (CSV) files, etc. as needed;
(e)	Follow ‘Best Practices’ as identified in the overall technology market place related to development of Texas Standard Electronic Transactions (TX SETs); and
(f)	Develop processes and procedures for the management of changes to TX SETs and the release of new versions of TX SETs.
19.3	Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Definitions
19.3.1	Defined Texas Standard Electronic Transactions
(1)	Service Order Request (650_01)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the Competitive Retailer (CR) to the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) via point to point protocol, is used to initiate the original service order request, cancel request, or change/update request.
(b)	For every 650_01, Service Order Request, there will be a 650_02, Service Order Response. 
(2)	Service Order Response (650_02)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to the CR via point to point protocol, is used to send a response to the CR’s original 650_01, Service Order Request, that the transaction is complete, complete unexecutable, rejected, or requires a permit.
(b)	For every 650_01 transaction, there will be a 650_02 transaction.
(3)	Planned or Unplanned Outage Notification (650_04)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to the CR via point to point protocol, is used to notify the CR of a suspension of delivery service or to cancel the suspension of delivery service.
(b)	From Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative (MOU/EC) TDSP to CR via point to point protocol, is used to notify the CR of disconnect/reconnect of delivery service for non-payment of wires charges, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, Municipally Owned Utility and/or Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Market.
(4)	Planned or Unplanned Outage Response (650_05)
This transaction set is no longer valid as of Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (SET) 4.0.
(5)	TDSP Invoice (810_02)
This transaction set:
From the TDSP to the CR via point to point protocol, is an invoice for wire charges as listed in each TDSP tariff (i.e., delivery charges, late payment charges, discretionary service charges, etc.).  The 810_02, TDSP Invoice, may be paired with an 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, to trigger the Customer billing process.
(6)	MOU/EC Invoice (810_03)
This transaction set:
From the CR to the MOU/EC TDSP via point to point protocol, is an invoice for monthly energy charges, discretionary, and service charges for the current billing period, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1.  The 810_03, MOU/EC Invoice, will be preceded by an 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, to trigger the Customer billing process.
(7)	Maintain Customer Information Request (814_PC)
This transaction set:
(a)	From a CR to the TDSP via point to point protocol, is used to maintain the information needed by the TDSP to verify the CR’s end use Customer’s identity (i.e., name, address and contact phone number) for a particular point of delivery served by the CR.  A CR shall be required to provide TDSP with the information to contact the Customer and to continuously provide TDSP updates of changes in such information. 
(b)	From the CR to the TDSP via point to point protocol, will be transmitted only after the CR has received the 867_04, Initial Meter Read, from the TDSP for that specific move in Customer.  Also, the CR will not transmit this transaction set and/or provide any updates to the TDSP after receiving the 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, final meter read for that specific move out Customer.  
(c)	From a MOU/EC TDSP to CR via point to point protocol, is used to provide the CR with updated Customer information (name, address, membership ID, home phone number, etc.) for a particular point of delivery served by both the MOU/EC TDSP and the CR and to continuously provide CR updates of such information, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1.
(8)	Maintain Customer Information Response (814_PD)
This transaction set:
From the TDSP to the CR via point to point protocol, or from the CR to MOU/EC TDSP via point to point protocol, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, is used to respond to the 814_PC, Maintain Customer Information Request.
(9)	Switch Request (814_01)
This transaction set:
From a new CR to ERCOT, is used to begin the Customer enrollment process for a switch.
(10)	Switch Reject Response (814_02)
This transaction set:
From ERCOT to the new CR, is used by ERCOT to reject the 814_01, Switch Request, based on incomplete or invalid information.  This is a conditional transaction and will only be used as a negative response.  If the 814_02, Switch Reject Response, is not received from ERCOT, the new CR will receive the 814_05, CR Enrollment Notification Response, from ERCOT.
(11)	Enrollment Notification Request (814_03)
This transaction set: 
(a)	From ERCOT to the TDSP, passes information from the 814_01, Switch Request; 814_16, Move In Request; or an 814_24, Move Out Request, where a Continuous Service Agreement (CSA) exists.
(b)	The historical usage, if requested by the submitter of the initiating transaction, will be sent using the 867_02, Historical Usage.
(c)	Will be initiated by ERCOT and transmitted to the TDSP in the event of a Mass Transition.
(d)	Will be initiated by ERCOT and transmitted to the TDSP in the event of an Acquisition Transfer.
(12)	Enrollment Notification Response (814_04)
This transaction set:
From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used to provide the scheduled meter read date that the TDSP has calculated and pertinent Customer and Premise information in response to an 814_01, Switch Request; 814_16, Move In Request; 814_24, Move Out Request, where a CSA exists initiated by a CR or a Mass Transition or Acquisition Transfer of Electric Service Identifiers (ESI IDs) initiated by ERCOT.  TDSPs will acknowledge the initiating CRs request for historical usage with this transaction but will send the usage using the 867_02, Historical Usage.  
(13)	CR Enrollment Notification Response (814_05)
This transaction set:
From ERCOT to the new CR, is essentially a pass through of the TDSP’s 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, information.  This transaction will provide the scheduled meter read date for the CR’s 814_01, Switch Request, or 814_16, Move In Request.
(14)	Loss Notification (814_06)
This transaction set:
From ERCOT to the current CR, is used to notify a current CR of a drop initiated by an 814_01, Switch Request, or drop notification due to a pending 814_16, Move In Request, from a new CR.
(15)	Loss Notification Response (814_07)
This transaction set is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0.
(16)	Cancel Request (814_08)
This transaction set:
(a)	From ERCOT to the TDSP, is used to cancel an 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, or an 814_24, Move Out Request. 
(b)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is used to cancel an 814_06, Loss Notification, (forced Move-Out or Switch Request), an 814_24 transaction, or an 814_11, Drop Response. 
(c)	From ERCOT to the new CR, is used to cancel an 814_01, Switch Request, an 814_16, Move In Request, or an 814_14, Drop Enrollment Request.
(d)	From the current CR to ERCOT, is used to cancel an 814_24 transaction.  
(e)	From the new CR to ERCOT, is used to cancel an 814_01 or an 814_16 transaction.
(f)	From ERCOT to the CSA CR, is used to cancel an 814_22, CSA CR Move In Request. 
(g)	From ERCOT to the requesting CR/Provider of Last Resort (POLR), is used to cancel pending transactions involved in a Mass Transition.
(h)	From ERCOT to the Gaining CR, is used to cancel pending transaction involved in an Acquisition Transfer.
(17)	Cancel Response (814_09)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used in response to the cancellation of an 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, or an 814_24, Move Out Request. 
(b)	From the current CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0. 
(c)	From the new CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0.
(d)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is used in forwarding the response of the Customer cancel of an 814_24 transaction.
(e)	From CSA CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0.  
(f)	From ERCOT to the submitter of an 814_08, Cancel Request, is used to reject the cancellation request.
(g)	From POLR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0. 
(18)	Drop Request (814_10)
This transaction set is no longer valid as of March 8, 2007 (Reference Project No. 33025, PUC Rulemaking Proceeding to Amend Commission Substantive Rules Consistent With §25.43, Provider of Last Resort (POLR)). 
(19)	Drop Response (814_11)
This transaction set:
(a)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is sent within one Retail Business Day to notify the CR that the request is invalid. 
(b)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is used in response to a Mass Transition.
(c)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is used in response to an Acquisition Transfer.
(20)	Date Change Request (814_12)
This transaction set:
(a)	From new CR to ERCOT, is used when the Customer requests a date change to the original 814_16, Move In Request.
(b)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is used for a notification of the date change on the 814_16 transaction, from the new CR.
(c)	From ERCOT to the TDSP, is used for notification of a move in or move out date change request.
(d)	From the current CR to ERCOT, is used when the Customer requests a date change to the original 814_24, Move Out Request.
(e)	From ERCOT to the new CR, is used for notification of the date change on the 814_24 transaction from the current CR.
(f)	From ERCOT to the CSA CR, is used for notification of the date change on the 814_24 transaction only.  
(21)	Date Change Response (814_13)
This transaction set:
(a)	From ERCOT to new CR, is used to respond to the requested date change to the original move in date on the 814_12, Date Change Request.
(b)	From the current CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0.  
(c)	From the CSA CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0. 
(d)	From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used to respond to the requested date change to the original move in or move out date on the 814_12 transaction.
(e)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is used to respond to the requested date change to the original move out date on the 814_12 transaction.
(f)	From the new CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0.  
(22)	Drop Enrollment Request (814_14)
This transaction set: 
(a)	From ERCOT to the POLR or designated CR, is used in response to a Mass Transition.
(b)	From ERCOT to the Gaining CR, is used in response to an Acquisition Transfer.
(23)	Drop Enrollment Response (814_15)
This transaction set is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0.  
(24)	Move In Request (814_16)
This transaction set:
From the new CR to ERCOT, is used to begin the Customer enrollment process for a move in.
(25)	Move In Reject Response (814_17)
This transaction set:
From ERCOT to the new CR, is used by ERCOT to reject the 814_16, Move In Request, based on incomplete or invalid information.  This is a conditional transaction and will only be used as a negative response.  If the 814_17, Move In Reject Response, is not received from ERCOT, the CR will receive the 814_05, CR Enrollment Notification Response.
(26)	Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request (814_18)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the new CSA CR to ERCOT, is used to establish the owner/landlords’ new CSA CR in the registration system.
(b)	From the current CSA CR to ERCOT, is used to change an existing CSA CR end date.
(c)	From the current CSA CR to ERCOT, is used to remove an existing CSA CR from the registration system.
(d)	From ERCOT to the current CSA CR, is used for notification that the owner/landlord has selected a new CSA CR.
(e)	From ERCOT to the MOU/EC TDSP, is used to validate the CSA relationship information in the MOU/EC TDSP’s system, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1. 
(f)	From ERCOT to the MOU/EC TDSP, is used for notification of a change in CSA end date, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1.
(g)	From ERCOT to the MOU/EC TDSP, is used for notification of CSA deletion, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1.
(27)	Establish/Change/Delete CSA Response (814_19)
This transaction set:
(a)	From ERCOT to the new CSA CR, is used to respond to the 814_18, Establish/Change/Delete CSA Request, enrolling the new CSA CR in the registration system.
(b)	From ERCOT to the new CSA CR, is used to respond to the 814_18 transaction changing the end date for the current CSA CR in the registration system.
(c)	From ERCOT to the current CSA CR, is used to respond to the 814_18 transaction deleting the current CR from the registration system.
(d)	From the current CSA CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0.  
(e)	From the MOU/EC TDSP to ERCOT, is used to provide a response to the 814_18 transaction, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1.
(28)	ESI ID Maintenance Request (814_20)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used to initially populate the registration system for conversion/opt-in.
(b)	From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used to communicate the addition of a new ESI ID, changes to information associated with an existing ESI ID, or retirement of an existing ESI ID.
(c)	From ERCOT to current CR and any pending CR(s), is notification of the TDSP’s changes to information associated with an existing ESI ID. 
(29)	ESI ID Maintenance Response (814_21)
This transaction set:
(a)	From ERCOT to TDSP, is used to respond to the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request.
(b)	From the current CR and any pending CR(s) to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0. 
(c)	From the new CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0. 
(30)	CSA CR Move In Request (814_22)
This transaction set:
From ERCOT to CSA CR, is used to start a CSA service for the ESI ID.
(31)	CSA CR Move In Response (814_23)
This transaction set:
From the CSA CR to ERCOT, is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0. 
(32)	Move Out Request (814_24)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the current CR to ERCOT, is used for notification of a Customer’s Move Out Request.
(b)	From ERCOT to the TDSP, is notification of the Customer’s Move Out Request.  If a CSA exists on the ESI ID, then the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, is sent instead of the 814_24, Move Out Request.
(33)	Move Out Response (814_25)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to ERCOT to the current CR, is used to respond to the 814_24, Move Out Request.  If a CSA exists on the ESI ID and ERCOT sent the 814_03, Enrollment Notification Request, instead of the 814_24 transaction, the TDSP will then respond with the 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response.
(b)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is used to respond to the 814_24 transaction.
(34)	Historical Usage Request (814_26)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the current CR to ERCOT, is used to request the historical usage for an ESI ID.
(b)	From ERCOT to the TDSP, it is a pass through of the current CR’s 814_26, Historical Usage Request.
(35)	Historical Usage Response (814_27)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used to respond to the 814_26, Historical Usage Request.
(b)	From ERCOT to the current CR, is a pass through of the TDSP’s response to the 814_26 transaction.
(36)	Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required (814_28)
This transaction set:
(a)	For a move out, is from the TDSP to ERCOT, and from ERCOT to the current CR, to notify the current CR the move out was unexecutable.  Upon sending this transaction, the TDSP closes the initiating move out transaction.  The CR must initiate corrective action and resubmit the Move-Out Request.
(b)	For a move in, is from the TDSP to ERCOT, and from ERCOT to the new CR, or the current CR for energized accounts, to notify the CR that the work was complete unexecutable, or that a permit is required.  Upon sending this transaction to notify the new CR of a complete unexecutable, the TDSP closes the initiating transaction.  The new CR must initiate corrective action and resubmit the Move-In Request.
(c)	Upon sending the 814_28 (PT) transaction to notify the new CR that a permit is required, ERCOT will allow the TDSP 20 Retail Business Days to send the 814_04, Enrollment Notification Response, due to permit requirements.  After the 20 Retail Business Days, if no 814_04 transaction is received, ERCOT will then issue an 814_08, Cancel Request.  If the move in is cancelled due to permit not received, ERCOT will note the reason in the 814_08 transaction.
(d)	For a switch, is from the TDSP to ERCOT, and from ERCOT to the new CR or current CR, to notify CRs that the work has been complete unexecutable.
(37)	Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required Response (814_29)
This transaction set:
(a)	From ERCOT to the TDSP to reject the 814_28, Complete Unexecutable or Permit Required.
(b)	From the CR (current CR for a move out or a new CR for a move in) to ERCOT, and from ERCOT to the TDSP is no longer valid as of Texas SET 4.0. 
(38)	CR Remittance Advice (820_02)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the CR to the TDSP, is used as a remittance advice concurrent with a corresponding payment to the TDSP banking institution for a dollar amount equal to the total of the itemized payments in the 820_02, CR Remittance Advice.  This transaction will reference the 810_02, TDSP Invoice, by ESI ID.  If payment and remittance are transmitted together to a financial institution, this implementation guide may be used as a baseline for discussion with the payer’s financial institution.  All “must use” fields in the 820_02 transaction must be forwarded to the payer’s financial institution and be supported by the payee’s financial institution.   
(b)	A single payment sent via the bank and a single remittance sent to the TDSP can include multiple invoices, however a one to one correlation must exist between the payment submitted to the bank and the corresponding remittance advice to the TDSP.  
(39)	MOU/EC Remittance Advice (820_03)
This transaction set:
From the MOU/EC TDSP to the CR, is used as a remittance advice concurrent with a corresponding payment to the CR banking institution for a dollar amount equal to the total of the itemized payments in the 820_03, MOU/EC Remittance Advice, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1.  This transaction will reference the CR’s Customer account number and ESI ID.  If payment and remittance are transmitted together to a financial institution, this implementation guide may be used as a baseline for discussion with the payer’s financial institution.  All “must use” fields in the 820_03 transaction, must be forwarded to the payer’s financial institution and be supported by the payee’s financial institution.
(40)	Invoice or Usage Reject Notification (824)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the CR to the TDSP, is used by the CR to reject and/or accept with exception the 810_02, TDSP Invoice, sent by the TDSP. 
(b)	From ERCOT to the TDSP, is used to reject the 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, transaction sent by the TDSP.
(c)	From the CR to ERCOT, is used to reject the 867_03 transaction sent by ERCOT.
(d)	From the MOU/EC TDSP to the CR, is used to reject the 810_03, MOU/EC Invoice, sent by the CR, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1.
(41)	Historical Usage (867_02)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used to report historical usage.
(b)	From ERCOT to the CR, is essentially a pass through of the TDSP’s 867_02, Historical Usage.
(42)	Monthly or Final Usage (867_03)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used to report monthly usage.
(b)	From ERCOT to the CR, is essentially a pass through of the TDSP’s 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage.
(c)	From ERCOT to the TDSP or CR, is for ERCOT polled services.
(43)	Initial Meter Read (867_04)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the TDSP to ERCOT, is used to report the initial read associated with an 814_01, Switch Request, or an 814_16, Move In Request.
(b)	From ERCOT to the new CR, is used to report the initial read associated with an 814_01 or 814_16 transaction.
(44)	Functional Acknowledgement (997)
This transaction set:
(a)	From the receiver of the originating transaction to the sender of the originating transaction, is used to acknowledge the receipt of the originating transaction and indicate whether the transaction passed American National Standards Institute Accredited Standards Committee X12 (ANSI ASC X12) validation.  This acknowledgement does not imply that the originating transaction passed TX SET validation.  The CR, TDSP, or ERCOT shall respond with a 997, Functional Acknowledgement, within 24 hours of receipt of an inbound transaction.
(b)	Provides a critical audit trail.  All parties must send a 997 transaction for all Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) transactions.  Parties will track and monitor acknowledgements sent and received.
(45)	Option 1 Outages:  Outage Status Request (T0)
This transaction set:
From a CR to TDSP, is used to request outage status.  This is not a required transaction for an Option 1 CR reporting unplanned outages.  
(46)	Option 1 Outages:  Trouble Reporting Request (T1)
This transaction set:
From a CR to TDSP, is used to report an outage or service irregularity requiring near Real-Time outage response.  This is a required transaction for an Option 1 CR to electronically transmit to the TDSP for every valid outage or service irregularity reported.
(47)	Option 1 Outages:  Trouble Report Acknowledgement (T2)
This transaction set:
From a TDSP to CR, is used to acknowledge the receipt of a T1, Option 1 Outages: Trouble Reporting Request, with either an acceptance or a rejection response.  This is a required transaction for the TDSP when an Option 1 CR utilizes the T1 transaction.  
(48)	Option 1 Outages:  Status Response (T3)
This transaction set:
From a TDSP to CR, is used to provide status information for a previously submitted T0, Option 1 Outages:  Outage Status Request, message.  This is a required transaction for the TDSP when an Option 1 CR utilizes the T0 transaction.  
(49)	Option 1 Outages:  Trouble Completion Report (T4)
This transaction set:
From a TDSP to CR, is used by the TDSP to notify the CR that the trouble condition has been resolved.  This is a required transaction for the TDSP when an Option 1 CR utilizes the T1, Option 1 Outages:  Trouble Reporting Request, transaction.
19.4	Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Change Control Process
(1)	The appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee shall make modifications and additions to the Texas Standard Electronic Transactions (TX SETs) in accordance with this Section.  TX SETs will be expanded and modified to accommodate retail market operations or regulatory requirements on an ongoing basis.  Each Market Participant will rely on established, documented, and tested transactions.  The Texas SET Change Control process provides the mechanism by which changes to the Texas SET Implementation Guides may be discussed, reviewed, accepted, and implemented.
19.4.1	Technical Advisory Committee Subcommittee Responsibilities
(1)	The appropriate TAC subcommittee will continue to:
(a)	Review and approve Texas SET Change Controls;
(b)	Classify a Texas SET Change Control request as urgent when the change meets the criteria in Section 19.4.5, Urgent Change Request;
(c)	Review and approve Texas SET Implementation Guides; and 
(d)	Coordinate timing for changes in any of the TX SETs.
19.4.2	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT will facilitate the activities listed in Section 19.4, Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Change Control Process, by overseeing the Texas SET Change Control activities of the TX SETs.
(2)	ERCOT, in conjunction with the appropriate TAC subcommittee, will maintain, publish, and post the Texas SET Implementation Guides and the Texas SET Change Controls requesting modifications and enhancements, to the ERCOT website.
(a)	The Texas SET Change Controls shall be published by ERCOT within seven Retail Business Days of approval by the appropriate TAC subcommittee. 
(b)	The approved Texas SET Implementation Guides shall be published by ERCOT at a predetermined time as set by the appropriate TAC subcommittee.  
19.4.3	Texas SET Change Control Dispute Process
(1)	A Market Participant may register a dispute with ERCOT by completing the designated form provided on the ERCOT website within seven days after the date of the appropriate TAC subcommittee decision. ERCOT shall reject disputes made after that time.  The dispute shall be submitted to txsetchangecontrol@ercot.com.  ERCOT shall post disputes with the applicable change control within three Business Days of receiving the dispute. 
(2)	Disputes shall be heard at the next regularly scheduled TAC meeting.  However, if the dispute is posted within seven days of the TAC meeting the dispute will not be heard until the subsequent TAC meeting.  A dispute of a Texas SET Change Control to TAC suspends any further decisions on the Texas SET Change Control until the dispute has been decided by TAC.
19.4.4	Submission of Proposed Changes
(1)	An Entity proposing a change shall notify ERCOT by submitting the designated form provided on the ERCOT website.
(2)	Texas SET Change Controls will be processed in accordance with the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Implementation Guides Change Control Process located on the ERCOT website.  
(3)	Texas SET Change Controls will proceed on a normal timeline unless classified as urgent as described in Section 19.4.5, Urgent Change Request.
19.4.5	Urgent Change Request
(1)	A Texas SET Change Control may be classified as urgent by the appropriate TAC subcommittee and will accommodate:
(a)	An approved regulatory requirement; and /or
(b)	Necessary corrective action to retail market processes.
(2)	Urgent Texas SET Change Controls shall be implemented as prescribed by the approving TAC subcommittee. 
19.5	Texas Standard Electronic Transactions Acceptable Character Set
19.5.1	Alphanumeric Field(s)
(1)	For use on an alphanumeric field, Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) recognizes all characters within the basic character set.  Further clarification and additional character set validations are available within each Texas SET Implementation Guide that is located on the ERCOT website.
19.6	Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Envelope Standards
19.6.1	ERCOT Validation
(1)	ERCOT acts as the certificate authority and generates a digital certificate on behalf of each Market Participant.  The Market Participant must be identified uniquely within the ERCOT System.
19.7	Advanced Meter Interval Data Format and Submission
(1)	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) will provide 15-minute interval data to ERCOT from provisioned Advanced Meters and Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) / Electric Cooperative (EC) Non-BUSIDRRQ Interval Data Recorders (IDRs) using an ERCOT specified file format submitted via North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) on at least a monthly basis.
19.8	Retail Market Testing 
(1)	The Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) Working Group works with the ERCOT flight administrator to develop and maintain a test plan and related testing standards for all retail transactional changes within the ERCOT market.  
(2)	Market Participants may be required to successfully test as a means of confirming that each Market Participant is qualified to transmit TX SET transactions as a result of approved changes prior to production implementation.  Some of these changes include, but may not be limited to:
(a)	North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) Practice Standards version upgrade(s) as outlined in the TDTMS NAESB Electronic Delivery Mechanism V 1.6 Implementation Guide; and/or
(b)	TX SET version release upgrade(s) as outlined in the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction Implementation Guides.
(3)	ERCOT may also deem testing to be necessary by Market Participants in order that ERCOT may maintain retail systems’ performance, reliability and integrity as outlined in the Retail and ListServ Market IT Services Service Level Agreement and the Market Data Transparency Service Level Agreement.   
(4)	Testing of these changes shall be scheduled by ERCOT with approval by impacted Market Participants to allow ERCOT and all impacted Market Participants adequate time to modify their systems and participate in the testing process.  Testing processes, procedures, schedules and success criteria are defined in the Texas Market Test Plan (TMTP) Guide and on the ERCOT website.  The ERCOT flight administrator is the final authority on all levels of retail business process qualification among trading partners.  
(5)	ERCOT may enlist the services of an Independent Third Party Testing Administrator (ITPTA) for testing retail processes.
(6)	For additional testing requirements for both new and existing Market Participants, please refer to the Texas Market Test Plan.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 20:  Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds

November 1, 2023


 
20	Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds	20-1
20.1	Applicability	20-1
20.2	Deadline for Initiating ADR Proceeding	20-2
20.3	Exhaustion of Other Dispute Resolution Procedures	20-2
20.4	Initiation of ADR Proceedings	20-3
20.5	Alternative Dispute Resolution Process	20-4
20.6	Mediation Procedures	20-5
20.7	Alternative Dispute Resolution Costs and Return of Settlement Funds	20-6
20.8	Requests for Documents and Data	20-6
20.9	Resolution of Alternative Dispute Resolution Proceedings and Notification to Market Participants	20-6
20.10	Return of Settlement Funds by a Qualified Scheduling Entity or Congestion Revenue Right Account Holder to ERCOT	20-7
20.10.1	Applicability	20-7
20.10.2	Initiation of Return of Settlement Funds	20-7
20.10.3	Process for a Return of Settlement Funds Request	20-8
20.10.4	Settlement Following Approved Return of Settlement Funds	20-8
20.11	Settlement of Approved Alternative Dispute Resolution Claims	20-9
20.11.1	Adjustments Based on Alternative Dispute Resolution	20-9
20.11.2	Charges for Approved ADR Claim	20-9
 
20	ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURE AND PROCEDURE FOR RETURN OF SETTLEMENT FUNDS
20.1	Applicability
(1)	Except as otherwise provided in Section 20, Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds, this Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedure applies to any claim by a Market Participant that ERCOT has violated or misinterpreted any law, including any statute, rule, Protocol, Other Binding Document, or Agreement, where such violation or misinterpretation results in actual harm, or could result in imminent harm, to the Market Participant.  A Market Participant that disputes an interpretation of the ERCOT Protocols, an Other Binding Document, or an Agreement made by ERCOT through the Protocol interpretation request process described in subsection (i) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.503, Oversight of Wholesale Market Participants, is not required to follow the ADR procedure prior to seeking relief from the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) or other Governmental Authority.
(2)	Only a Counter-Party may request ADR to seek correction of Settlement data and resettlement, except that:
(a)	A Market Participant that is not a Counter-Party may submit an ADR request seeking correction of Settlement data and resettlement on behalf of an affected Counter-Party upon providing ERCOT written documentation executed by the Authorized Representative of the Counter-Party designating the Market Participant as the Counter-Party’s agent for purposes of submitting the ADR request; and
(b)	A Load Serving Entity (LSE), with its Counter-Party, or a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) may submit an ADR request for correction of Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) service history, usage information, and/or resettlement, as set forth in these Protocols and the Retail Market Guide.
(3)	Nothing in this ADR procedure is intended to limit or restrict the right of a Market Participant to file a petition seeking direct relief from the PUCT or another Governmental Authority without first exhausting this ADR procedure where actual or threatened action by ERCOT or a Market Participant could cause irreparable harm and where such harm cannot be addressed within the time permitted under the ADR process.
(4)	Except for the provisions of this Section 20.1, the ADR procedure may be modified by mutual agreement of the parties.
(5)	Parties shall exercise good faith efforts to timely resolve disputes under Section 20.
(6)	Nothing contained in Section 20 is intended to supersede any dispute resolution process mandated by applicable law or tariff.  Furthermore, this ADR procedure does not apply to any dispute concerning an agreement between Market Participants or the terms of any tariff.  To the extent any dispute not governed by Section 20 involves the interpretation of the ERCOT Protocols, an Other Binding Document, or an Agreement, that dispute may be submitted to ERCOT through the Protocol interpretation request process described in subsection (i) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.503.
20.2	Deadline for Initiating ADR Proceeding
(1)	The following deadlines shall apply for the initiation of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) proceeding:
(a)	For any ADR proceeding invoked in connection with a Settlement and billing dispute submitted pursuant to Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Disputes, the Market Participant must submit a complete written request for ADR no later than 45 days after the resolution date on which ERCOT denied the Market Participant’s Settlement and billing dispute.
(b)	For any ADR proceeding invoked in connection with the rejection or rescission (or a portion thereof) of a verifiable cost, or rejection of a verifiable cost appeal, the Market Participant must submit a complete written request for ADR no later than 45 days after either:
(i)	Rejection or rescission (or a portion thereof) of a verifiable cost; or 
(ii)	Notice from ERCOT that the appeal, in whole or in part, has been rejected. 
(c)	For any ADR proceeding invoked in connection with a disagreement arising from a Data Extract Variance process, the Market Participant must submit a complete written request for ADR no later than 45 days after issuance of the True-Up Statement for the applicable Operating Day.
(d)	For any ADR proceeding invoked in connection with any other matter, the Market Participant must submit a complete written request for ADR no later than six months after the date on which information giving rise to the ADR request became available to the Market Participant.
(2)	If the Market Participant requesting ADR does not submit a complete written request for ADR (as set forth in Section 20.4, Initiation of ADR Proceedings) within the time required by paragraph (1) above, the Market Participant waives any claim regarding the dispute.
20.3	Exhaustion of Other Dispute Resolution Procedures
(1)	When a section of these Protocols, an Other Binding Document, or an Agreement sets forth a dispute resolution procedure, a Market Participant shall exhaust that procedure prior to initiating an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) proceeding, including but not limited to the following:
(a)	If a Market Participant seeks resolution of a variance subject to the Data Extract Variance Process, the Market Participant must comply with that process prior to initiating an ADR proceeding, or the claim is waived.
(b)	If a Counter-Party seeks correction of Settlement data and resettlement, except for resolution of a variance subject to the Data Extract Variance Process as described in paragraph (a) above, the Counter-Party must comply with the process set forth in Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process, prior to initiating an ADR proceeding, or the claim is waived.  
20.4	Initiation of ADR Proceedings
(1)	To initiate an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) proceeding, a Market Participant shall complete and submit to the ERCOT Legal Department the designated form provided on the ERCOT website in the manner required by the form.
(a)	All written requests shall include the following information:
(i)	The name of the disputing Market Participant;
(ii)	A description of the relief sought;
(iii)	A detailed description of the grounds for the relief and the basis of each claim that must, at a minimum, identify which statute(s), rule(s), Protocol Section(s), Other Binding Document(s), Agreement(s) or other law(s) are alleged to have been violated;
(iv)	A list of all other parties that would be affected by the dispute; and
(v)	Designation of a senior dispute representative.  
(b)	For ADR proceedings for which the Market Participant seeks a monetary resolution, the Market Participant shall also include the following information:
(i)	Operating Day(s) involved in the dispute;
(ii)	Settlement dispute number (if applicable); and
(iii)	Amount of compensation requested.
(2)	The date on which ERCOT receives the completed ADR written request shall be the ADR initiation date.
20.5	Alternative Dispute Resolution Process
(1)	No later than seven days after the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) initiation date, ERCOT shall determine, and provide Notice to, all parties directly involved in the dispute.  Such Notice shall include the ADR file number and the designation of the ERCOT senior dispute representative.  
(2)	For ADR proceedings that involve more than one Market Participant, each Market Participant other than the Market Participant that submitted the ADR request shall provide the name and contact information of a senior dispute representative no later than seven days after receipt of Notice from ERCOT pursuant to paragraph (1) above.  If a Market Participant does not provide this information within the time required, the Market Participant waives its right to participate in the ADR proceeding.
(3)	Any dispute subject to ADR as described in this Section shall be referred to a senior dispute representative of each of the parties to the dispute.  The senior dispute representative shall be an individual with authority to resolve the dispute (through delegation or otherwise).  A disputing party may change its senior dispute representative upon reasonable written notice to all parties though such redesignation shall not extend any of the ADR timelines.
(4)	The parties to the dispute shall arrange a mutually convenient time and place for a meeting, with the initial ADR meeting taking place no later than 75 days after the ADR initiation date unless all parties agree to an extension of time.  If the party that submitted the request for ADR fails to make reasonable efforts to schedule and attend the initial ADR meeting within the time required (including any agreed-upon extension of time), ERCOT may, in its sole discretion, deny the dispute.
(5)	After the initial ADR meeting, ERCOT may approve or deny the dispute in whole or in part by issuing the disposition Market Notice described in paragraph (1) of Section 20.9, Resolution of Alternative Dispute Resolution Proceedings and Notification to Market Participants.  ERCOT must issue the Market Notice disposing of the ADR request no later than 30 days after the initial ADR meeting unless all parties agree in writing to an extension of time.
(6)	If the senior dispute representatives cannot resolve the dispute by mutual agreement within 45 days after the initial senior dispute resolution meeting (unless all parties agree in writing to an extension of time), then, upon the agreement of all parties to the ADR, the dispute may be referred to mediation pursuant to Section 20.6, Mediation Procedures.
(7)	The parties to the dispute may elect to waive ADR by written agreement, which will also complete the ADR proceeding. 
(8)	The following table summarizes the ADR process timelines:
Deadline to submit ADR Request 
to ERCOT	ERCOT 
Notice of Receipt	 Other Market Participant
Contact Info 
to ERCOT1		ERCOT/ Market Participant
Initial ADR meeting	ERCOT/ Market Participant
resolution of ADR

≤ 45 days
of denial (Settlement and billing dispute denied by ERCOT)

≤ 45 days
of True-Up (Data Extract Variance dispute not resolved by True-Up)

≤ 6 months
from date on which information giving rise to ADR request became available (any other dispute)
	≤ 7 days
after ADR initiation date	
≤ 7 days
after receipt of ERCOT Notice of receipt	


	
≤ 75 days
after ADR initiation date2	
≤ 30 days
after initial ADR meeting2
					
					
Notes:
1.	If required pursuant to paragraph (2) above.
2.	Unless all parties agree to an extension of time.
20.6	Mediation Procedures
(1)	The parties shall agree on a mediator who has no past or present official, financial, or personal conflict of interest with respect to the issues or parties in dispute, unless the interest is fully disclosed in writing to all participants in the dispute and all such participants waive in writing any objection to the conflict of interest.  If the parties are unable to agree on a mediator within ten days of the agreement to mediate, then the Commercial Mediation Rules of the American Arbitration Association (AAA) will be used to select the mediator.
(2)	The mediator and senior dispute representatives of the parties shall commence mediation of the dispute within ten days after the mediator’s date of appointment.  Communications regarding mediation shall be confidential and shall not be referred to or disclosed in any subsequent proceeding.  The mediator shall aid the parties in reaching a mutually acceptable resolution of the dispute.  If agreement regarding the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) cannot be reached, any of the parties may apply for relief to the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), or any other Governmental Authority.
20.7	Alternative Dispute Resolution Costs and Return of Settlement Funds
(1)	Each party shall be responsible for its own costs incurred during an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) or Return of Settlement Funds (RSF) proceeding.
20.8	Requests for Documents and Data
(1)	If, as part of the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) proceeding or Return of Settlement Funds (RSF) proceeding, a party requests documents or data from another party to the ADR or RSF proceeding, the responding party must provide one of the following within 15 days of the request:
(a)	The requested documents or data;
(b)	An explanation of why the documents or data should not be produced (e.g., relevance); or
(c)	An explanation of why the information cannot be provided on that date and a reasonable date on which the documents or data will be produced.
(2)	All information provided pursuant to this subsection shall be provided by mail, email, or other mutually agreed-upon method.
20.9	Resolution of Alternative Dispute Resolution Proceedings and Notification to Market Participants 
(1)	If ERCOT has determined the appropriate disposition of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) proceeding, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice providing a brief description of the relevant facts, a list of the parties involved in the dispute, the disposition of the proceeding and the reasoning supporting the resolution.  No later than seven days prior to issuing a Market Notice pursuant to this paragraph (1), ERCOT shall provide a copy of the proposed Market Notice, including the proposed issuance date, to the party that submitted the request for ADR, who may comment on the proposed Market Notice.
(2)	In addition to the Market Notice described in paragraph (1) above, if an ADR claim is approved in whole or in part, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice describing the total resettlement amount and the manner in which the resulting overpayments or underpayments will be allocated to the appropriate Settlement Statement recipients and Invoice Recipients, including the specific Settlement Statements and Invoices that will be affected.  The Market Notice shall include the information required by Section 9.2.6, Notice of Resettlement for the DAM, or Section 9.5.7, Notice of Resettlement for the Real-Time Market, as applicable.
(3)	If, in connection with the disposition of an ADR proceeding, ERCOT determines that it is appropriate to correct Day-Ahead Market Clearing Prices for Capacity (MCPCs), Day-Ahead hourly Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs), Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices (DASPPs), Real-Time Settlement Point Prices, Real-Time Settlement Point LMPs, Real-Time Electrical Bus LMPs, Real-Time prices for energy metered, Real-Time On-Line Reserve Price Adders, Real-Time Off-Line Reserve Price Adders, Real-Time Reserve Prices for On-Line Reserves, Real-Time Reserve Prices for Off-Line Reserves, Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Adders, Real-Time On-Line Reliability Deployment Prices, and/or constraint Shadow Prices, approval of the ERCOT Board pursuant to paragraph (6) of Section 4.5.3, Communicating DAM Results, or paragraph (7) of Section 6.3, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations Timeline, as applicable, is not required.
(4)	Upon issuance of the Market Notice described in paragraph (1) above, the ADR process shall be deemed complete, and any Market Participant that is adversely affected may appeal ERCOT’s decision to the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) pursuant to P.U.C. PROC. R. 22.251, Review of Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Conduct.
20.10	Return of Settlement Funds by a Qualified Scheduling Entity or Congestion Revenue Right Account Holder to ERCOT 
20.10.1	Applicability 
(1)	This Section applies to a claim by a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) or Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder (“Applicant”) that it received a payment or reduction of charge from ERCOT that exceeds the amount that ERCOT should have credited to the QSE or CRR Account Holder for a “Charge Type” for a given Operating Day or other period of time (“Overpayment”).
(2)	An Applicant may use the procedures set forth in this Section to return Settlement funds to ERCOT in the event that it has received an Overpayment.  This process shall be known as a Return of Settlement Funds (RSF) proceeding.  
(3)	An Applicant that seeks to initiate an RSF proceeding shall file a request with ERCOT, as described in Section 20.10.2, Initiation of Return of Settlement Funds, within one year of the Operating Day at issue.  ERCOT may reject a request if it determines that other Protocol processes apply to address the issue.
(4)	If ERCOT denies an Applicant’s RSF request, the Applicant may appeal ERCOT’s decision to the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) pursuant to P.U.C. PROC. R. 22.251, Review of Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) Conduct.
20.10.2	Initiation of Return of Settlement Funds 
(1)	To initiate an RSF proceeding, an Applicant shall complete and submit to the ERCOT Legal Department and the Independent Market Monitor (IMM) the designated form provided on the ERCOT website in the manner required by the form.  All written requests shall include the following information: 
(a)	The name of the Applicant initiating the RSF proceeding; 
(b)	The amount of Settlement funds that the Applicant intends to return; 
(c)	A description of the reason(s) for the Applicant’s initiation of the RSF proceeding, including references to any statute(s), rule(s), Protocol Section(s), Other Binding Document(s), Agreement(s), or other law(s) that may form all or part of the basis for the RSF; 
(d)	The Operating Day(s) involved in the RSF; 
(e)	A list of all other parties that would be affected by the RSF; and 
(f)	Designation of a senior representative who is responsible for handling matters relating to the RSF proceeding.  
(2)	The date on which ERCOT receives the completed RSF written request shall be the RSF initiation date. 
20.10.3	Process for a Return of Settlement Funds Request
(1)	Unless otherwise specified in these Protocols, the process for the resolution of an Applicant’s request to return an Overpayment of Settlement funds filed under this Section will follow the process established for the resolution of Alternative Dispute Resolutions (ADRs) under Section 20.5, Alternative Dispute Resolution Process.  
20.10.4	Settlement Following Approved Return of Settlement Funds  
(1)	If resettlement is practicable to address an adjustment required by the resolution of an RSF proceeding, ERCOT shall issue a Resettlement Statement for the affected Operating Day(s) and shall adjust applicable timelines accordingly.
(2)	If a resettlement is not practicable to address an adjustment required by an RSF resolution, ERCOT shall make the adjustments through a separate miscellaneous RSF Invoice that is produced outside of normal Settlement Invoices.  The appropriate payments and charges, along with Settlement quality information, shall be supplied to all impacted Market Participants.
20.11	Settlement of Approved Alternative Dispute Resolution Claims
20.11.1	Adjustments Based on Alternative Dispute Resolution
(1)	If resettlement is practicable to address an adjustment required by the resolution of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) proceeding, ERCOT shall issue a Resettlement Statement for the affected Operating Day(s) and shall adjust applicable timelines accordingly.
(2)	If a resettlement is not practicable to address an adjustment required by an ADR resolution, ERCOT shall make the adjustments through a separate ADR Invoice that is produced outside of normal Settlement Invoices.  The appropriate payments and charges, along with Settlement quality information, shall be supplied to all impacted Market Participants.  
(3)	Any amount greater than $5,000,000, as approved through the ADR proceeding, shall be divided so that no one Invoice has more than $5,000,000 in ADR adjustments and such Invoices shall be issued at least 14 days apart from each other.  Payments shall be due on the date specified on the Invoice.  Any short payment shall be handled pursuant to Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients.
20.11.2	Charges for Approved ADR Claim
(1)	The charges assigned to Market Participants to pay for an approved ADR claim shall be settled on the same Resettlement Statement or ADR Invoice as set forth in Section 20.11.1, Adjustments Based on Alternative Dispute Resolution.  ERCOT shall assign the costs for the approved ADR claim according to the appropriate allocation for the market service in dispute as outlined in the applicable Protocol sections.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 21:  Revision Request Process

June 1, 2023


 
21	Revision Request Process	21-1
21.1	Introduction	21-1
21.2	Submission of a Nodal Protocol Revision Request or System Change Request	21-2
21.3	Protocol Revision Subcommittee	21-2
21.4	Nodal Protocol Revision and System Change Procedure	21-3
21.4.1	Review and Posting of Nodal Protocol Revision Requests	21-3
21.4.2	Review and Posting of System Change Requests	21-4
21.4.3	Withdrawal of a Nodal Protocol Revision Request or System Change Request	21-5
21.4.4	Protocol Revision Subcommittee Review and Action	21-5
21.4.5	Comments to the Protocol Revision Subcommittee Report	21-6
21.4.6	Revision Request Impact Analysis	21-7
21.4.7	Protocol Revision Subcommittee Review of Impact Analysis	21-7
21.4.8	Technical Advisory Committee Vote	21-8
21.4.9	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report	21-9
21.4.10	ERCOT Board Vote	21-9
21.4.11	PUCT Approval of Revision Requests	21-10
21.4.12	Appeal of Action	21-10
21.4.12.1	Appeal of Protocol Revision Subcommittee Action	21-10
21.4.12.2	Appeal of Technical Advisory Committee Action	21-10
21.4.12.3	Appeal of ERCOT Board Action	21-11
21.5	Urgent and Board Priority Nodal Protocol Revision Requests and System Change Requests	21-11
21.6	Nodal Protocol Revision Implementation	21-12
21.7	Review of Project Prioritization and Annual Budget Process	21-12
21.8	Review of Guide Changes	21-13
 
21	REVISION REQUEST PROCESS 
21.1	Introduction
(1)	A request to make additions, edits, deletions, revisions, or clarifications to these Protocols, including any attachments and exhibits to these Protocols, is called a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR).  Except as specifically provided otherwise in the following sentence or in other sections of these Protocols, Sections 21.2, Submission of a Nodal Protocol Revision Request or System Change Request, through 21.8, Review of Guide Changes, apply to all NPRRs.  ERCOT Members, Market Participants, Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the Independent Market Monitor (IMM), the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Regional Entity, ERCOT, and any other Entities are required to utilize the process described herein prior to requesting, through the PUCT or other Governmental Authority, that ERCOT make a change to these Protocols, except for good cause shown to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority.
(2)	A request that ERCOT change its computer systems that does not require a revision to the Protocols is called a System Change Request (SCR).  Except as specifically provided in other sections of these Protocols, Sections 21.2 through 21.7, Review of Project Prioritization and Annual Budget Process, apply to all SCRs.
(3)	The “next regularly scheduled meeting” of the Protocol Revision Subcommittee (PRS), the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), an assigned TAC subcommittee (as defined below), the ERCOT Board, or the PUCT, shall mean the next regularly scheduled meeting for which required notice can be timely given regarding the item(s) to be addressed, as specified in the appropriate PUCT, ERCOT Board, or committee procedures.
(4)	ERCOT may make non-substantive corrections at any time during the processing of a particular NPRR.  Under certain circumstances, however, the Nodal Protocols can also be revised by ERCOT rather than using the NPRR process outlined in Section 21.4, Nodal Protocol Revision and System Change Procedure.
(a)	This type of revision is referred to as an “Administrative NPRR” or “Administrative Changes” and shall consist of non-substantive corrections, such as typos (excluding grammatical changes), internal references (including table of contents), improper use of acronyms, and references to ERCOT Protocols, PUCT Substantive Rules, the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA), NERC regulations, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) rules, etc.  Additionally, updates to Section 23, Forms, may also be processed as Administrative NPRRs.  
(b)	ERCOT shall post such Administrative NPRRs to the ERCOT website and distribute the NPRR to PRS.  If no Entity submits comments to the Administrative NPRR within ten Business Days in accordance with paragraph (1) of Section 21.4.4, Protocol Revision Subcommittee Review and Action, the Administrative NPRR shall be subject to PUCT approval.  Following PUCT approval, ERCOT shall implement the Administrative NPRR according to paragraph (4) of Section 21.6, Nodal Protocol Revision Implementation.  If any Entity submits comments to the Administrative NPRR, then it shall be processed in accordance with the NPRR process outlined in Section 21.4.
21.2	Submission of a Nodal Protocol Revision Request or System Change Request
(1)	The following Entities may submit a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) or System Change Request (SCR) (“Revision Request”):
(a)	Any Market Participant;
(b)	Any ERCOT Member;
(c)	Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Staff;
(d)	The Reliability Monitor;
(e)	The North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Regional Entity;
(f)	The Independent Market Monitor (IMM);
(g)	ERCOT; and
(h)	Any other Entity that meets the following qualifications:
(i)	Resides (or represents residents) in Texas or operates in the Texas electricity market; and
(ii)	Demonstrates that Entity (or those it represents) is affected by the Customer Registration or Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Trading Program sections of these Protocols.
21.3	Protocol Revision Subcommittee
(1)	The Protocol Revision Subcommittee (PRS) shall review and recommend action on formally submitted Nodal Protocol Revision Requests (NPRRs) and System Change Requests (SCRs) (“Revision Requests”) provided that:
(a)	PRS meetings are open to ERCOT, ERCOT Members, Market Participants, the Reliability Monitor, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Regional Entity, the Independent Market Monitor (IMM), and the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Staff;
(b)	Each Market Segment is allowed to participate; and
(c)	Each Market Segment has equal voting power.
(2)	Where additional expertise is needed, the PRS may refer a Revision Request to working groups or task forces that it creates or to existing Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittees, working groups or task forces for review and comment on the Revision Request.  Suggested modifications—or alternative modifications if a consensus recommendation is not achieved by a non-voting working group or task force—to the Revision Request should be submitted by the chair or the chair’s designee on behalf of the subcommittee, working group or task force as comments on the Revision Request for consideration by PRS.  However, the PRS shall retain ultimate responsibility for the processing of all Revision Requests.
(3)	ERCOT shall consult with the PRS chair to coordinate and establish the meeting schedule for the PRS.  The PRS shall ensure that reasonable advance notice of each meeting, including the meeting agenda, is posted on the ERCOT website.
21.4	Nodal Protocol Revision and System Change Procedure
21.4.1	Review and Posting of Nodal Protocol Revision Requests
(1)	Nodal Protocol Revision Requests (NPRRs) shall be submitted electronically to ERCOT by completing the designated form provided on the ERCOT website.  Excluding ERCOT-sponsored NPRRs, ERCOT shall provide an electronic return receipt response to the submitter upon receipt of the NPRR.
(2)	The NPRR shall include the following information:
(a)	Description of requested revision and reason for suggested change;
(b)	Impacts and benefits of the suggested change on ERCOT market structure, ERCOT operations, and Market Participants, to the extent that the submitter may know this information;
(c)	List of affected Nodal Protocol Sections and subsections;
(d)	General administrative information (organization, contact name, etc.); and
(e)	Suggested language for requested revision.
(3)	ERCOT shall evaluate the NPRR for completeness and shall notify the submitter, within five Business Days of receipt, if the NPRR is incomplete, including the reasons for such status.  ERCOT may provide information to the submitter that will correct the NPRR and render it complete.  An incomplete NPRR shall not receive further consideration until it is completed.  In order to pursue the NPRR, a submitter must submit a completed version of the NPRR.
(4)	If a submitted NPRR is complete or upon completion of an NPRR, ERCOT shall post the NPRR on the ERCOT website and distribute to the Protocol Revision Subcommittee (PRS) within three Business Days.
(5)	For any ERCOT-sponsored NPRR, ERCOT shall also post an initial Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website, and distribute it to PRS.  The initial Impact Analysis will provide PRS with guidance as to potential ERCOT computer systems, operations, or business functions that could be affected by the submitted NPRR.
21.4.2	Review and Posting of System Change Requests
(1)	System Change Requests (SCRs) shall be submitted electronically to ERCOT by completing the designated form provided on the ERCOT website.  Excluding ERCOT-sponsored SCRs, ERCOT shall provide an electronic return receipt response to the submitter upon receipt of the SCR.  
(2)	The SCR shall include the following information:
(a)	Description of desired additional system functionality or the additional information desired and reason for suggested change;
(b)	Impacts and benefits of the suggested change to ERCOT market structure, ERCOT operations and Market Participants, to the extent that submitter may know this information;
(c)	General administrative information (organization, contact name, etc.); and
(d)	Summary of requested changes to ERCOT systems.
(3)	ERCOT shall evaluate the SCR to determine whether the request should be submitted as an NPRR.  If ERCOT determines that the SCR should be submitted as an NPRR, ERCOT will notify the submitter within five Business Days of receipt, and the submitter shall withdraw its SCR and may submit an NPRR in its place.  If ERCOT deems it necessary for further review beyond the five Business Days, ERCOT shall notify the submitter.
(4)	ERCOT shall evaluate the SCR for completeness and shall notify the submitter, within five Business Days, if the SCR is incomplete, including the reasons for such status.  ERCOT may provide information to the submitter that will correct the SCR and render it complete.  An incomplete SCR shall not receive further consideration until it is completed.  In order to pursue the SCR requested, the submitting Entity must submit a completed version of the SCR.
(5)	If a submitted SCR is complete or upon completion of an SCR, ERCOT shall post the SCR on the ERCOT website and distribute to the PRS within three Business Days.
(6)	For any ERCOT-sponsored SCR, ERCOT shall also post an initial Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website, and distribute it to PRS.  The initial Impact Analysis will provide PRS with guidance as to potential ERCOT computer systems, operations, or business functions that could be affected by the submitted SCR.
21.4.3	Withdrawal of a Nodal Protocol Revision Request or System Change Request
(1)	A submitter may withdraw or request to withdraw an NPRR or SCR (“Revision Request”) by submitting a completed Request for Withdrawal form provided on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT shall post the submitter’s Request for Withdrawal on the ERCOT website within three Business Days of submittal.
(2)	The submitter of a Revision Request may withdraw the Revision Request at any time before PRS recommends approval of the Revision Request.  If PRS has recommended approval of the Revision Request, the Request for Withdrawal must be approved by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) if the Revision Request has not yet been recommended for approval by TAC.  If TAC has recommended approval of the Revision Request, the Request for Withdrawal must be approved by the ERCOT Board if the Revision Request has not yet been recommended for approval by the ERCOT Board.  Once recommended for approval by the ERCOT Board, a Revision Request cannot be withdrawn.
21.4.4	Protocol Revision Subcommittee Review and Action
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Regional Entity, the Independent Market Monitor (IMM), or ERCOT may comment on a Revision Request.
(2)	To receive consideration, comments must be delivered electronically to ERCOT in the designated format provided on the ERCOT website within 14 days from the posting date of the Revision Request.  Comments submitted after the 14-day comment period may be considered at the discretion of PRS after these comments have been posted.  Comments submitted in accordance with the instructions on the ERCOT website—regardless of date of submission—shall be posted to the ERCOT website and distributed to the PRS within three Business Days of submittal.
(3)	The PRS shall consider the Revision Request at its next regularly scheduled meeting after the end of the 14-day comment period.  At such meeting, the PRS may take action on the Revision Request.  The quorum and voting requirements for PRS action are set forth in the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures.  In considering action on a Revision Request, PRS may:
(a)	Recommend approval of the Revision Request as submitted or as modified;
(b)	Reject the Revision Request;
(c)	Table the Revision Request; or
(d)	Refer the Revision Request to another TAC subcommittee, working group, or task force as provided in Section 21.3, Protocol Revision Subcommittee.
(4)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a Revision Request and that motion fails, the Revision Request shall be deemed rejected by PRS unless at the same meeting PRS later votes to recommend approval of, table, or refer the Revision Request.  If a motion to recommend approval of a Revision Request fails via e-mail vote according to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas Technical Advisory Committee Procedures, the Revision Request shall be deemed rejected by PRS unless at the next regularly scheduled PRS meeting or in a subsequent e-mail vote prior to such meeting, PRS votes to recommend approval of, table, or refer the Revision Request.  The rejected Revision Request shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 21.4.12.1, Appeal of Protocol Revision Subcommittee Action.
(5)	Within three Business Days after PRS takes action, ERCOT shall post a PRS Report reflecting the PRS action on the ERCOT website.  The PRS Report shall contain the following items:
(a)	Identification of submitter of the Revision Request;
(b)	Protocol language or summary of requested changes to ERCOT systems, recommended by the PRS, if applicable; 
(c)	Identification of authorship of comments;
(d)	Proposed effective date(s) of the Revision Request;
(e)	Priority and rank for any Revision Requests requiring an ERCOT project for implementation; and
(f)	PRS action.
(6)	The PRS chair shall notify TAC of Revision Requests rejected by PRS.
21.4.5	Comments to the Protocol Revision Subcommittee Report
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the NERC Regional Entity, the IMM, or ERCOT may comment on the PRS Report.  Comments submitted in accordance with the instructions on the ERCOT website—regardless of date of submission—shall be posted on the ERCOT website and distributed to the committee(s) (i.e., PRS and/or TAC) considering the Revision Request within three Business Days of submittal.
(2)	The comments on the PRS Report will be considered at the next regularly scheduled PRS or TAC meeting where the Revision Request is being considered.
21.4.6	Revision Request Impact Analysis
(1)	If PRS recommends approval of a Revision Request, ERCOT shall prepare an Impact Analysis based on the proposed language or proposed system changes in the PRS Report.  If ERCOT has already prepared an Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall update the existing Impact Analysis, if necessary, to accommodate the language or system changes recommended for approval in the PRS Report.
(2)	The Impact Analysis shall assess the impact of the proposed Revision Request on ERCOT staffing, computer systems, operations, or business functions and shall contain the following information:
(a)	An estimate of any cost and budgetary impacts to ERCOT for both implementation and on-going operations;
(b)	The estimated amount of time required to implement the Revision Request;
(c)	The identification of alternatives to the Revision Request that may result in more efficient implementation; and
(d)	The identification of any manual workarounds that may be used as an interim solution and estimated costs of the workaround.
(3)	Unless a longer review period is warranted due to the complexity of the proposed PRS Report, ERCOT shall post an Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website, for a Revision Request for which PRS has recommended approval of, prior to the next regularly scheduled PRS meeting, and distribute to PRS.  If a longer review period is required by ERCOT to complete an Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
21.4.7	Protocol Revision Subcommittee Review of Impact Analysis
(1)	After ERCOT posts the results of the Impact Analysis, PRS shall review the Impact Analysis at its next regularly scheduled meeting.  PRS may revise its PRS Report after considering the information included in the Impact Analysis or additional comments received on the PRS Report.
(2)	Within three Business Days of PRS consideration of the Impact Analysis and PRS Report, ERCOT shall post the PRS Report on the ERCOT website.  If PRS revises the PRS Report, ERCOT shall update the Impact Analysis, if necessary, post the updated Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website, and distribute it to the committee(s) (i.e., PRS and/or TAC) considering the Impact Analysis.  If a longer review period is required for ERCOT to update the Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
(3)	If the Revision Request requires an ERCOT project for implementation, at the same meeting, PRS shall assign a recommended priority and rank for the associated project.
21.4.8	Technical Advisory Committee Vote
(1)	TAC shall consider any Revision Requests that PRS has submitted to TAC for consideration for which both a PRS Report and an Impact Analysis (as updated if modified by PRS under Section 21.4.7, Protocol Revision Subcommittee Review of Impact Analysis) have been posted on the ERCOT website.  The following information must be included for each Revision Request considered by TAC:
(a)	The PRS Report and Impact Analysis; 
(b)	The PRS-recommended priority and rank, if an ERCOT project is required; and
(c)	Any comments timely received in response to the PRS Report.
(2)	The quorum and voting requirements for TAC action are set forth in the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures.  In considering action on a PRS Report, TAC shall:
(a)	Recommend approval of the Revision Request as recommended in the PRS Report or as modified by TAC;
(b)	Reject the Revision Request; 
(c)	Table the Revision Request;
(d)	Remand the Revision Request to PRS with instructions; or
(e)	Refer the Revision Request to another TAC subcommittee or a TAC working group or task force with instructions.
(3)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a Revision Request and that motion fails, the Revision Request shall be deemed rejected by TAC unless at the same meeting TAC later votes to recommend approval of, table, remand, or refer the Revision Request.  If a motion to recommend approval of a Revision Request fails via email vote according to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas Technical Advisory Committee Procedures, the Revision Request shall be deemed rejected by TAC unless at the next regularly scheduled TAC meeting or in a subsequent email vote prior to such meeting, TAC votes to recommend approval of, table, remand, or refer the Revision Request.  The rejected Revision Request shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 21.4.12.2, Appeal of Technical Advisory Committee Action.
(4)	Within three Business Days after TAC takes action on the Revision Request, ERCOT shall post a TAC Report reflecting the TAC action on the ERCOT website.  The TAC Report shall contain the following items:
(a)	Identification of the submitter of the Revision Request;
(b)	Modified Revision Request language proposed by TAC, if applicable;
(c)	Identification of the authorship of comments;
(d)	Proposed effective date(s) of the Revision Request;
(e)	Priority and rank for any Revision Requests requiring an ERCOT project for implementation;
(f)	PRS action;
(g)	TAC action; 
(h)	Credit review;
(i)	IMM Opinion;
(j)	ERCOT Opinion; and
(k)	ERCOT Market Impact Statement.
(5)	If TAC recommends approval of a Revision Request, ERCOT shall forward the TAC Report to the ERCOT Board for consideration pursuant to Section 21.4.10, ERCOT Board Vote.
21.4.9	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report
(1)	ERCOT shall review the TAC Report and, if necessary, update the Impact Analysis as soon as practicable.  ERCOT shall distribute the updated Impact Analysis, if applicable, to TAC and post it on the ERCOT website.  If a longer review period is required for ERCOT to update the Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
21.4.10	ERCOT Board Vote
(1)	Upon issuance of a TAC Report and Impact Analysis to the ERCOT Board, the ERCOT Board shall review the TAC Report and the Impact Analysis at the next regularly scheduled meeting.  For Urgent Revision Requests, the ERCOT Board shall review the TAC Report and Impact Analysis at the next regularly scheduled meeting, unless a special meeting is required due to the urgency of the Revision Request.  
(2)	The quorum and voting requirements for ERCOT Board action are set forth in the ERCOT Bylaws.  In considering action on a TAC Report, the ERCOT Board shall:
(a)	Recommend approval of the Revision Request as recommended in the TAC Report or as modified by the ERCOT Board;
(b)	Reject the Revision Request;
(c)	Table the Revision Request; or
(d)	Remand the Revision Request to TAC with instructions.
(3)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a Revision Request and that motion fails, the Revision Request shall be deemed rejected by the ERCOT Board unless at the same meeting the ERCOT Board later votes to recommend approval, table, or remand the Revision Request.  The rejected Revision Request shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 21.4.12.3, Appeal of ERCOT Board Action.
(4)	Within three Business Days after the ERCOT Board takes action on a Revision Request, ERCOT shall post a Board Report reflecting the ERCOT Board action on the ERCOT website.
21.4.11	PUCT Approval of Revision Requests
(1)	All Revision Requests require approval by the PUCT prior to implementation.
(2)	Within three Business Days after the PUCT takes action on a Revision Request, ERCOT shall post a PUCT Report reflecting the PUCT action on the ERCOT website.    
21.4.12	Appeal of Action
(1)	The following processes are to be used to appeal an action related to a Revision Request.
21.4.12.1	Appeal of Protocol Revision Subcommittee Action
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the IMM, the NERC Regional Entity, or ERCOT may appeal a PRS action to reject, table, or refer a Revision Request, directly to the TAC.  Such appeal to the TAC must be submitted electronically to ERCOT by completing the designated form provided on the ERCOT website within seven days after the date of the relevant PRS appealable event.  ERCOT shall reject appeals made after that time.  ERCOT shall post appeals on the ERCOT website within three Business Days of receiving the appeal.  Appeals shall be heard at the next regularly scheduled TAC meeting that is at least seven days after the date of the requested appeal.  An appeal of a Revision Request to TAC suspends consideration of the Revision Request until the appeal has been decided by TAC.
21.4.12.2	Appeal of Technical Advisory Committee Action
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the IMM, the NERC Regional Entity, or ERCOT may appeal a TAC action to reject, table, remand or refer a Revision Request directly to the ERCOT Board.  Appeals to the ERCOT Board shall be processed in accordance with the ERCOT Board Policies and Procedures.  An appeal of a Revision Request to the ERCOT Board suspends consideration of the Revision Request until the appeal has been decided by the ERCOT Board.
21.4.12.3	Appeal of ERCOT Board Action
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the IMM, or the NERC Regional Entity may appeal any decision of the ERCOT Board regarding a Revision Request to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority.  Such appeal to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority must be made within any deadline prescribed by the PUCT or other Governmental Authority, but in any event no later than 35 days of the date of the relevant ERCOT Board appealable event.  Notice of any appeal to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority must be provided, at the time of the appeal, to ERCOT’s General Counsel.  If the PUCT or other Governmental Authority rules on the Revision Request, ERCOT shall post the ruling on the ERCOT website.
21.5	Urgent and Board Priority Nodal Protocol Revision Requests and System Change Requests
(1)	The party submitting a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) or System Change Request (SCR) (“Revision Request”) may request that the Revision Request be considered on an urgent timeline (“Urgent”) only when the submitter can reasonably show that an existing Protocol or condition is impairing or could imminently impair ERCOT System reliability or wholesale or retail market operations, or is causing or could imminently cause a discrepancy between a settlement formula and a provision of these Protocols.
(2)	The Protocol Revision Subcommittee (PRS) may designate the Revision Request for Urgent consideration upon a valid motion in a regularly scheduled meeting of the PRS or at a special meeting called by the PRS leadership.  Criteria for designating a Revision Request as Urgent are that the Revision Request requires immediate attention due to: 
(a)	Serious concerns about ERCOT System reliability or market operations under the unmodified language or existing conditions; or 
(b)	The crucial nature of settlement activity conducted pursuant to any settlement formula.
(3)	The ERCOT Board may designate any existing Revision Request a Board Priority Revision Request.  If the ERCOT Board directs ERCOT Staff to file a Revision Request, it may further direct that a Revision Request be designated a Board Priority Revision Request.  All Board Priority Revision Requests will be considered on an Urgent timeline.
(4)	ERCOT shall prepare an Impact Analysis for Urgent and Board Priority Revision Requests as soon as practicable.
(5)	The PRS shall consider the Urgent or Board Priority Revision Request and Impact Analysis, if available, at its next regularly scheduled meeting, or at a special meeting called by the PRS leadership to consider the Urgent or Board Priority Revision Request.
(6)	If recommended for approval by PRS, ERCOT shall post a PRS Report on the ERCOT website within three Business Days after PRS takes action.  The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) chair may request action from TAC to accelerate or alter the procedures described herein, as needed, to address the urgency of the situation.
(7)	Any Urgent or Board Priority Revision Requests shall be subject to an Impact Analysis pursuant to Section 21.4.9, ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report, and ERCOT Board consideration pursuant to Section 21.4.10, ERCOT Board Vote.
21.6	Nodal Protocol Revision Implementation
(1)	Following Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) approval, ERCOT shall implement Nodal Protocol Revision Requests (NPRRs) on the first day of the month following PUCT approval, unless otherwise provided in the PUCT Report for the approved NPRR.
(2)	For such other NPRRs, the Impact Analysis shall provide an estimated amount of time required to implement the NPRR and ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice as soon as practicable, but no later than ten days prior to actual implementation, unless a different notice period is required in the PUCT Report for the approved NPRR.
(3)	If the PUCT approves changes to the Protocols, such changes shall be:
(a)	Filed with the PUCT for informational purposes as soon as practicable, but no later than one day before the effective date of the changes; and
(b)	Incorporated into the Protocols and posted on the ERCOT website as soon as practicable, but no later than one day before the effective date of the changes.
(4)	ERCOT shall implement an Administrative NPRR on the first day of the month following PUCT approval.
21.7	Review of Project Prioritization and Annual Budget Process
(1)	The Protocol Revision Subcommittee (PRS) shall recommend to the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) an assignment of a project priority for each approved Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) and System Change Request (SCR) (“Revision Request”) that requires an associated project.
(2)	Annually, the PRS shall review the priority of all market-requested projects and recommend new or revised project priorities for market-requested projects.    
(3)	TAC shall consider the project priority of each Revision Request and make recommendations to the ERCOT Board.
(4)	The ERCOT Board shall take one of the following actions regarding the project prioritization recommended by TAC:
(a)	Approve the TAC recommendation as originally submitted or as modified by the ERCOT Board; 
(b)	Reject the TAC recommendation; 
(c)	Remand the TAC recommendation to TAC with instructions; or 
(d)	Table the TAC recommendation.
21.8	Review of Guide Changes
(1)	The revision process for the ERCOT market guides shall be governed by the individual guides and assigned subcommittees.  The Protocol Revision Subcommittee (PRS) shall review changes to market guides proposed by other subcommittees that may conflict with existing Protocols and report the results of its review to the submitting subcommittee.


ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 24:  Retail Point to Point Communications

November 1, 2023



 
24	Retail Point to Point Communications	24-1
24.1	Maintenance Service Order Request	24-1
24.1.1	Disconnect/Reconnect	24-1
24.1.2	Suspension of Delivery Service	24-1
24.1.2.1	Notification	24-1
24.1.2.2	Cancellation	24-2
24.1.3	Switch Hold Indicator	24-2
24.1.3.1	Tampering Switch Hold	24-2
24.1.3.2	Bill Payment Switch Hold	24-3
24.2	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider to Competitive Retailer Invoice	24-3
24.3	Monthly Remittance	24-4
24.3.1	Competitive Retailer to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Monthly Remittance Advice	24-4
24.3.1.1	Remittance Advice Total Matches Payment Total	24-4
24.3.1.2	Negative Remittance Advice	24-4
24.3.1.3	Acceptable Payment Methods	24-5
24.3.1.4	Warehousing an 820 Remittance Advice	24-5
24.4	Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider to Competitive Retailer Monthly Remittance Advice	24-5
24.4.1	Timing 820 Remittance to CR	24-5
24.4.2	Remittance Advice Total Matches Payment Total	24-6
24.4.3	Negative Remittance Advice	24-6
24.4.4	Acceptable Payment Methods	24-6
24.4.5	Warehousing an 820 Remittance Advice	24-6
24.5	Maintain Customer Information Request	24-6
24.5.1	Timing of 814_PC Maintain Customer Information Request from Competitive Retailer	24-7
24.6	MOU/EC TDSP to CR Maintain Customer Information Request	24-7
24.6.1	Timing of 814_PC Maintain Customer Information Request from Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider	24-7

 
24	RETAIL POINT TO POINT COMMUNICATIONS
(1)	Point to point communications include transactions flowing directly between Competitive Retailers (CRs), and Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) and do not flow through ERCOT.  These point to point transactions may be Customer requested service orders and CR/TDSP invoicing and remittance.
24.1	Maintenance Service Order Request
(1)	To initiate an original service order, cancel, or change (update) request, the Competitive Retailer (CR) sends maintenance related information to the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) using the 650_01, Service Order Request.  The 650_01 transaction sent by the CR shall include a level of information such that the TDSP clearly understands the nature of the request and the work that it is being requested to perform.  The TDSP will respond within one Retail Business Day after completion, or attempted completion, of the requested action using the 650_02, Service Order Response, to notify the CR that the service order is either completed, unable to be completed, or rejected, or that a permit is required before the order can be completed.  There is a one-to-one relationship between the 650_01 and 650_02 transactions.
24.1.1	Disconnect/Reconnect
(1)	Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules and orders, along with TDSP tariffs, dictate the timeline for both disconnection for non-payment and reconnection after disconnection for non-payment.  For more information please refer to the Retail Market Guide Section 7.6, Disconnect and Reconnect for Non-Payment Process.
24.1.2	Suspension of Delivery Service 
(1)	The following transactions shall be used by a TDSP seeking to suspend delivery service for an Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID).
24.1.2.1	Notification
(1)	The 650_04, Planned or Unplanned Outage Notification, is electronically transmitted by the TDSP to the CR to notify the CR of the ESI ID(s) and Service Address(es) affected by either a temporary or permanent suspension of service.  The situations under which a 650_04 transaction may be created and transmitted to the CR include:
(a)	An outage has been scheduled by the TDSP for the Customer's Service Address for a specific date and time.  This type of suspension may be the result of scheduled tree trimming, electrical inspection, testing, maintenance, or changes/upgrades to network equipment.
(b)	An outage has occurred at the Customer's Service Address, but it was not planned or previously scheduled.  Such a suspension is normally needed to remedy a dangerous electrical condition that exists at the Customer's address due to an event or activity such as a fire, meter tampering, or theft of service.
(c)	For circumstances when a CR, the Customer, or authorized legal authority (county, city, fire, or police personnel) requests disconnection and meter removal because a structure has been destroyed or demolished, or the TDSP has found the meter removed by an unknown Entity, or has removed the meter for unsafe conditions, the TDSP will send a 650_04 transaction.  In events where the CR receives a 650_04 transaction indicating that service to the Premise has been permanently suspended by the TDSP for one of the reasons indicated above, the CR will send an 814_24, Move Out Request, to the TDSP within ten Retail Business Days.
(d)	Just like a suspension is scheduled or requested it can also be cancelled.  If the suspension request is cancelled for any reason, the TDSP will create a 650_04 transaction indicating that the suspension has been cancelled and send a 650_04 transaction to the CR for every ESI ID that would have been affected by the outage.
(2)	To notify the CR of a suspension of delivery service, the TDSP sends Notice to the CR using the 650_04 transaction.  
24.1.2.2	Cancellation
(1)	To notify the CR of a cancellation of the Notification of suspension of delivery service, the TDSP sends Notice to the CR using the 650_04, Planned or Unplanned Outage, for each ESI ID that would otherwise have been affected by the outage.
24.1.3	Switch Hold Indicator 
24.1.3.1	Tampering Switch Hold
(1)	A tampering switch hold is used when tampering has been determined to have occurred.  A switch hold will be placed on the ESI ID in accordance with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.126, Adjustments Due to Non-Compliant Meters and Meter Tampering in Areas Where Customer Choice Has Been Introduced.  
(2)	To remove a switch hold indicator, the CR sends the 650_01, Service Order Request, to the TDSP requesting the removal of the switch hold indicator.  The TDSP will respond with the 650_02, Service Order Response, to the CR acknowledging receipt of the service order request.  Confirmation that the service order request has been completed will be received through the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request.
24.1.3.2	Bill Payment Switch Hold
(1)	A bill payment switch hold is used when a Customer has entered into a payment agreement with their current CR.  A switch hold will be placed on the ESI ID in accordance with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.480, Bill Payment and Adjustments.  
(a)	To add a switch hold indicator, the CR sends the 650_01, Service Order Request, to the TDSP requesting the addition of the switch hold indicator.  The TDSP will respond with the 650_02, Service Order Response, to the CR acknowledging receipt of the service order request.  Confirmation that the service order request has been completed will be received through the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request.  
(b)	To remove a switch hold indicator, the CR sends the 650_01 to the TDSP requesting the removal of the switch hold indicator.  The TDSP will respond with the 650_02 response to the CR acknowledging receipt of the service order request.  Confirmation that the service order request has been completed will be received through the 814_20 transaction.
24.2	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider to Competitive Retailer Invoice 
(1)	The 810_02, TDSP Invoice, may include monthly delivery charges, discretionary service charges, service order charges, interest credit, and/or late payment charges for the current billing period.  Following a positive acknowledgement indicating the transaction passed American National Standards Institute Accredited Standards Committee (ANSI ASC) X12 validation, the Competitive Retailer (CR) shall have five Business Days to send a rejection response in accordance with the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX  SET) Implementation Guides posted on the ERCOT website and Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules.  If the CR has not received a response transaction to an enrollment or move in, the CR shall not reject the invoice, but will utilize an approved market process (MarkeTrak or dispute process) to resolve the issue.  Details of these processes may be found in the Retail Market Guide Section 7, Market Processes.  
(2)	Only one 810_02 transaction may be sent for a single service period, however, any additional 810_02 transaction for the same Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) may be sent for a late payment charge after the 35th calendar day for an unpaid 810_02 transaction or for interest credit.
(3)	The 810_02 may be paired with an 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, to trigger the Customer billing process.
(4)	The Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) may cancel and replace (rebill) the original 810_02 transaction.  The values in the cancel transaction will be identical in amounts to what they were on the original invoice.  The replacement (rebilled) invoice now becomes the monthly invoice for that service period.
(5)	If the 867_03 is cancelled after the TDSP has sent the 810_02 transaction, the TDSP will cancel the 810_02 transaction.  If the 810_02 transaction error is not related to consumption, the TDSP may cancel the 810_02 transaction and not the 867_03 transaction.
24.3	Monthly Remittance
(1)	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) and Competitive Retailers (CR) shall use the following transactions to remit monthly payments.
24.3.1	Competitive Retailer to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Monthly Remittance Advice
(1)	This transaction set, from the CR to the TDSP, is used by the CR to notify the TDSP of payment details related to a specific invoice.  A CR must pass an 820_02, CR Remittance Advice, for every invoice (original, cancel, replacement) received, validated, and accepted by the CR even when a cancel and restatement of usage subsequently cancels the original invoice.
(2)	Each Market Participant is responsible for ensuring that the data provided in the 820_02 transaction is presented in a format that is consistent with market specifications prescribed in the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) Implementation Guide posted on the ERCOT website.
24.3.1.1	Remittance Advice Total Matches Payment Total
(1)	The remittance advice must match the total payment.  The CR must ensure that the remittance advice and the payment instructions have the same (matching) trace/reference numbers.  A one-to-one correlation must be maintained between payments and remittance advices.  It is acceptable for one payment and one remittance advice to include many invoices.  It is not acceptable for several payments to reference one remittance advice.  Every payment trace/reference number sent via the bank must match a remittance advice trace/reference number sent to the TDSP.  The trace/reference number must be unique for each associated payment and remittance advice.
24.3.1.2	Negative Remittance Advice
(1)	A negative remittance advice is not allowed in the Texas retail market.  If the adjustments are larger than the payments (creating a negative remittance advice), payments must be held until the CR can submit a net positive remittance advice as a credit against the overpayment.  It is not necessary for a CR to hold an adjustment amount until the CR has accumulated sufficient invoices to result in a complete offset of the overpayment.  Instead the CR may use the adjustment amount by taking a partial credit on another Invoice.  If the CR has determined that the negative remittance cannot be offset within a reasonable amount of time, the CR will contact the TDSP to resolve the situation.
24.3.1.3	Acceptable Payment Methods
(1)	Acceptable payment methods are CCD+, CTX and Fed wire.
24.3.1.4	Warehousing an 820 Remittance Advice
(1)	When the payment instruction and the remittance advice are generated separately, the TDSP will warehouse the 820_02, CR Remittance Advice, until the payment instructions received by the CR’s bank cause the money to be deposited in the TDSP’s account.  The payment instruction and remittance shall be transmitted within five Business Days of each other.  The remittance advice and payment instruction dollar amount must balance to the corresponding transaction.  Payment will be considered received on the date company’s bank receives the electronic funds transfer or wire transfer and the appropriate remittance advice is received by the company in accordance with the requirements specified by Applicable Legal Authorities (ALA).
24.4	Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider to Competitive Retailer Monthly Remittance Advice
(1)	This transaction set, from a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) or an Electric Cooperative (EC) TDSP (MOU/EC TDSP) to the Competitive Retailer (CR) is used by the MOU/EC TDSP to notify the CR of payment details related to a specific Invoice, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, Municipally Owned Utility and/or Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Market.  An MOU/EC TDSP must pass an 820_03, MOU/EC Remittance Advice, for every CR account number even when a cancel and restatement of usage subsequently cancels the original invoice. 
(2)	Each Market Participant is responsible for ensuring that the data provided in the 820_03 transaction is presented in a format that is consistent with the market specifications in the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) Implementation Guide.
24.4.1	Timing 820 Remittance to CR
(1)	When the payment is received from the retail Customer on behalf of the CR, MOU/EC TDSP shall send the payment instructions within five Retail Business Days of the due date of the retail Customer’s bill, or if the Customer has paid after the due date, five Business Days after the MOU/EC TDSP has received payment.  Payment instruction shall cause the money to be deposited in the CR’s account.  There should not be more than five Business Days difference in the receipt of the payment instruction and the remittance advice.
24.4.2	Remittance Advice Total Matches Payment Total
(1)	The remittance advice must match the total payment.  The MOU/EC TDSP must ensure that the remittance advice and the payment instructions have the same (matching) trace/reference numbers.  A one-to-one correlation must be maintained between payments and remittance advice.  It is acceptable for one payment and one remittance advice to include many invoices.  It is not acceptable for several payments to reference one remittance advice.  Every payment trace/reference number sent via the bank must match a remittance advice trace/reference number sent to the CR.  The trace/reference number must be unique for each associated payment and remittance advice.
24.4.3	Negative Remittance Advice
(1)	A negative remittance advice is not allowed in the Texas market.  If the adjustments are larger than the payments (creating a negative remittance advice), payment must be held until the MOU/EC TDSP can submit a net positive remittance advice as a credit against the overpayment.  It is not necessary for a MOU/EC TDSP to hold an adjustment amount until the MOU/EC TDSP has accumulated sufficient Invoices to result in a complete offset of the overpayment.  Instead the MOU/EC TDSP may use the adjustment amount by taking a partial credit on another Invoice.  If the MOU/EC TDSP has determined that the negative remittance cannot be offset within a reasonable amount of time, the MOU/EC TDSP will contact the CR to resolve the situation.
24.4.4	Acceptable Payment Methods
(1)	Acceptable payment instruction methods are CCD+, CTX, check, and Fed wire.
24.4.5	Warehousing an 820 Remittance Advice
(1)	When the payment instruction and the remittance advice are generated separately, the CR may warehouse the 820_03, MOU/EC Remittance Advice, until the payment instructions received by the MOU/EC TDSP’s bank cause the money to be deposited in the CR’s account.
24.5	Maintain Customer Information Request
(1)	This transaction set, from a Competitive Retailer (CR) to a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP), is used for CRs who have chosen Options 2 and 3 concerning service orders and/or outages.  A CR choosing Option 2 or 3 shall be required to provide the TDSP with the information necessary to verify CR’s retail Customer’s identity (name, address, and home or contact telephone number) for a particular point of delivery served by the CR and to continually provide the TDSP updates of such information.
24.5.1	Timing of 814_PC Maintain Customer Information Request from Competitive Retailer
(1)	This transaction shall be transmitted from the CR of Record to the TDSP in one Retail Business Day only after the CR has received an 867_04, Initial Meter Read, from the TDSP for that specific move in Customer.  Also, the CR shall not transmit this transaction and/or provide any updates to the TDSP after receiving a final reading via an 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, for that specific move-out Customer.  The TDSP shall provide the 814_PD, Maintain Customer Information Response, in one Retail Business Day acknowledging receipt of the 814_PC, Maintain Customer Information Request, which would indicate that the TDSP accepts or rejects the transaction.
24.6	MOU/EC TDSP to CR Maintain Customer Information Request
(1)	This transaction set, from a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU)/Electric Cooperative (EC) Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) to the Competitive Retailer (CR), is used by the MOU/EC TDSP to provide the CR with Customer information (name, address, membership id, and home or contact telephone number) for a particular point of delivery served by both the MOU/EC TDSP and CR and to continually provide the CR updates of such information, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, Municipally Owned Utility and/or Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Market.
24.6.1	Timing of 814_PC Maintain Customer Information Request from Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider
(1)	This transaction shall be transmitted from the MOU/EC TDSP to the CR in one Retail Business Day upon an update in Customer information.  The CR shall provide the 814_PD, Maintain Customer Information Response, in one Retail Business Day acknowledging receipt of the 814_PC, Maintain Customer Information Request, which would indicate that the CR accepts or rejects the transaction. 


ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 24:  Retail Point to Point Communications

November 1, 2023



 
24	Retail Point to Point Communications	24-1
24.1	Maintenance Service Order Request	24-1
24.1.1	Disconnect/Reconnect	24-1
24.1.2	Suspension of Delivery Service	24-1
24.1.2.1	Notification	24-1
24.1.2.2	Cancellation	24-2
24.1.3	Switch Hold Indicator	24-2
24.1.3.1	Tampering Switch Hold	24-2
24.1.3.2	Bill Payment Switch Hold	24-3
24.2	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider to Competitive Retailer Invoice	24-3
24.3	Monthly Remittance	24-4
24.3.1	Competitive Retailer to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Monthly Remittance Advice	24-4
24.3.1.1	Remittance Advice Total Matches Payment Total	24-4
24.3.1.2	Negative Remittance Advice	24-4
24.3.1.3	Acceptable Payment Methods	24-5
24.3.1.4	Warehousing an 820 Remittance Advice	24-5
24.4	Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider to Competitive Retailer Monthly Remittance Advice	24-5
24.4.1	Timing 820 Remittance to CR	24-5
24.4.2	Remittance Advice Total Matches Payment Total	24-6
24.4.3	Negative Remittance Advice	24-6
24.4.4	Acceptable Payment Methods	24-6
24.4.5	Warehousing an 820 Remittance Advice	24-6
24.5	Maintain Customer Information Request	24-6
24.5.1	Timing of 814_PC Maintain Customer Information Request from Competitive Retailer	24-7
24.6	MOU/EC TDSP to CR Maintain Customer Information Request	24-7
24.6.1	Timing of 814_PC Maintain Customer Information Request from Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider	24-7

 
24	RETAIL POINT TO POINT COMMUNICATIONS
(1)	Point to point communications include transactions flowing directly between Competitive Retailers (CRs), and Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) and do not flow through ERCOT.  These point to point transactions may be Customer requested service orders and CR/TDSP invoicing and remittance.
24.1	Maintenance Service Order Request
(1)	To initiate an original service order, cancel, or change (update) request, the Competitive Retailer (CR) sends maintenance related information to the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) using the 650_01, Service Order Request.  The 650_01 transaction sent by the CR shall include a level of information such that the TDSP clearly understands the nature of the request and the work that it is being requested to perform.  The TDSP will respond within one Retail Business Day after completion, or attempted completion, of the requested action using the 650_02, Service Order Response, to notify the CR that the service order is either completed, unable to be completed, or rejected, or that a permit is required before the order can be completed.  There is a one-to-one relationship between the 650_01 and 650_02 transactions.
24.1.1	Disconnect/Reconnect
(1)	Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules and orders, along with TDSP tariffs, dictate the timeline for both disconnection for non-payment and reconnection after disconnection for non-payment.  For more information please refer to the Retail Market Guide Section 7.6, Disconnect and Reconnect for Non-Payment Process.
24.1.2	Suspension of Delivery Service 
(1)	The following transactions shall be used by a TDSP seeking to suspend delivery service for an Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID).
24.1.2.1	Notification
(1)	The 650_04, Planned or Unplanned Outage Notification, is electronically transmitted by the TDSP to the CR to notify the CR of the ESI ID(s) and Service Address(es) affected by either a temporary or permanent suspension of service.  The situations under which a 650_04 transaction may be created and transmitted to the CR include:
(a)	An outage has been scheduled by the TDSP for the Customer's Service Address for a specific date and time.  This type of suspension may be the result of scheduled tree trimming, electrical inspection, testing, maintenance, or changes/upgrades to network equipment.
(b)	An outage has occurred at the Customer's Service Address, but it was not planned or previously scheduled.  Such a suspension is normally needed to remedy a dangerous electrical condition that exists at the Customer's address due to an event or activity such as a fire, meter tampering, or theft of service.
(c)	For circumstances when a CR, the Customer, or authorized legal authority (county, city, fire, or police personnel) requests disconnection and meter removal because a structure has been destroyed or demolished, or the TDSP has found the meter removed by an unknown Entity, or has removed the meter for unsafe conditions, the TDSP will send a 650_04 transaction.  In events where the CR receives a 650_04 transaction indicating that service to the Premise has been permanently suspended by the TDSP for one of the reasons indicated above, the CR will send an 814_24, Move Out Request, to the TDSP within ten Retail Business Days.
(d)	Just like a suspension is scheduled or requested it can also be cancelled.  If the suspension request is cancelled for any reason, the TDSP will create a 650_04 transaction indicating that the suspension has been cancelled and send a 650_04 transaction to the CR for every ESI ID that would have been affected by the outage.
(2)	To notify the CR of a suspension of delivery service, the TDSP sends Notice to the CR using the 650_04 transaction.  
24.1.2.2	Cancellation
(1)	To notify the CR of a cancellation of the Notification of suspension of delivery service, the TDSP sends Notice to the CR using the 650_04, Planned or Unplanned Outage, for each ESI ID that would otherwise have been affected by the outage.
24.1.3	Switch Hold Indicator 
24.1.3.1	Tampering Switch Hold
(1)	A tampering switch hold is used when tampering has been determined to have occurred.  A switch hold will be placed on the ESI ID in accordance with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.126, Adjustments Due to Non-Compliant Meters and Meter Tampering in Areas Where Customer Choice Has Been Introduced.  
(2)	To remove a switch hold indicator, the CR sends the 650_01, Service Order Request, to the TDSP requesting the removal of the switch hold indicator.  The TDSP will respond with the 650_02, Service Order Response, to the CR acknowledging receipt of the service order request.  Confirmation that the service order request has been completed will be received through the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request.
24.1.3.2	Bill Payment Switch Hold
(1)	A bill payment switch hold is used when a Customer has entered into a payment agreement with their current CR.  A switch hold will be placed on the ESI ID in accordance with P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.480, Bill Payment and Adjustments.  
(a)	To add a switch hold indicator, the CR sends the 650_01, Service Order Request, to the TDSP requesting the addition of the switch hold indicator.  The TDSP will respond with the 650_02, Service Order Response, to the CR acknowledging receipt of the service order request.  Confirmation that the service order request has been completed will be received through the 814_20, ESI ID Maintenance Request.  
(b)	To remove a switch hold indicator, the CR sends the 650_01 to the TDSP requesting the removal of the switch hold indicator.  The TDSP will respond with the 650_02 response to the CR acknowledging receipt of the service order request.  Confirmation that the service order request has been completed will be received through the 814_20 transaction.
24.2	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider to Competitive Retailer Invoice 
(1)	The 810_02, TDSP Invoice, may include monthly delivery charges, discretionary service charges, service order charges, interest credit, and/or late payment charges for the current billing period.  Following a positive acknowledgement indicating the transaction passed American National Standards Institute Accredited Standards Committee (ANSI ASC) X12 validation, the Competitive Retailer (CR) shall have five Business Days to send a rejection response in accordance with the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX  SET) Implementation Guides posted on the ERCOT website and Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules.  If the CR has not received a response transaction to an enrollment or move in, the CR shall not reject the invoice, but will utilize an approved market process (MarkeTrak or dispute process) to resolve the issue.  Details of these processes may be found in the Retail Market Guide Section 7, Market Processes.  
(2)	Only one 810_02 transaction may be sent for a single service period, however, any additional 810_02 transaction for the same Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) may be sent for a late payment charge after the 35th calendar day for an unpaid 810_02 transaction or for interest credit.
(3)	The 810_02 may be paired with an 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, to trigger the Customer billing process.
(4)	The Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) may cancel and replace (rebill) the original 810_02 transaction.  The values in the cancel transaction will be identical in amounts to what they were on the original invoice.  The replacement (rebilled) invoice now becomes the monthly invoice for that service period.
(5)	If the 867_03 is cancelled after the TDSP has sent the 810_02 transaction, the TDSP will cancel the 810_02 transaction.  If the 810_02 transaction error is not related to consumption, the TDSP may cancel the 810_02 transaction and not the 867_03 transaction.
24.3	Monthly Remittance
(1)	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) and Competitive Retailers (CR) shall use the following transactions to remit monthly payments.
24.3.1	Competitive Retailer to Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Monthly Remittance Advice
(1)	This transaction set, from the CR to the TDSP, is used by the CR to notify the TDSP of payment details related to a specific invoice.  A CR must pass an 820_02, CR Remittance Advice, for every invoice (original, cancel, replacement) received, validated, and accepted by the CR even when a cancel and restatement of usage subsequently cancels the original invoice.
(2)	Each Market Participant is responsible for ensuring that the data provided in the 820_02 transaction is presented in a format that is consistent with market specifications prescribed in the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) Implementation Guide posted on the ERCOT website.
24.3.1.1	Remittance Advice Total Matches Payment Total
(1)	The remittance advice must match the total payment.  The CR must ensure that the remittance advice and the payment instructions have the same (matching) trace/reference numbers.  A one-to-one correlation must be maintained between payments and remittance advices.  It is acceptable for one payment and one remittance advice to include many invoices.  It is not acceptable for several payments to reference one remittance advice.  Every payment trace/reference number sent via the bank must match a remittance advice trace/reference number sent to the TDSP.  The trace/reference number must be unique for each associated payment and remittance advice.
24.3.1.2	Negative Remittance Advice
(1)	A negative remittance advice is not allowed in the Texas retail market.  If the adjustments are larger than the payments (creating a negative remittance advice), payments must be held until the CR can submit a net positive remittance advice as a credit against the overpayment.  It is not necessary for a CR to hold an adjustment amount until the CR has accumulated sufficient invoices to result in a complete offset of the overpayment.  Instead the CR may use the adjustment amount by taking a partial credit on another Invoice.  If the CR has determined that the negative remittance cannot be offset within a reasonable amount of time, the CR will contact the TDSP to resolve the situation.
24.3.1.3	Acceptable Payment Methods
(1)	Acceptable payment methods are CCD+, CTX and Fed wire.
24.3.1.4	Warehousing an 820 Remittance Advice
(1)	When the payment instruction and the remittance advice are generated separately, the TDSP will warehouse the 820_02, CR Remittance Advice, until the payment instructions received by the CR’s bank cause the money to be deposited in the TDSP’s account.  The payment instruction and remittance shall be transmitted within five Business Days of each other.  The remittance advice and payment instruction dollar amount must balance to the corresponding transaction.  Payment will be considered received on the date company’s bank receives the electronic funds transfer or wire transfer and the appropriate remittance advice is received by the company in accordance with the requirements specified by Applicable Legal Authorities (ALA).
24.4	Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider to Competitive Retailer Monthly Remittance Advice
(1)	This transaction set, from a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU) Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) or an Electric Cooperative (EC) TDSP (MOU/EC TDSP) to the Competitive Retailer (CR) is used by the MOU/EC TDSP to notify the CR of payment details related to a specific Invoice, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, Municipally Owned Utility and/or Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Market.  An MOU/EC TDSP must pass an 820_03, MOU/EC Remittance Advice, for every CR account number even when a cancel and restatement of usage subsequently cancels the original invoice. 
(2)	Each Market Participant is responsible for ensuring that the data provided in the 820_03 transaction is presented in a format that is consistent with the market specifications in the Texas Standard Electronic Transaction (TX SET) Implementation Guide.
24.4.1	Timing 820 Remittance to CR
(1)	When the payment is received from the retail Customer on behalf of the CR, MOU/EC TDSP shall send the payment instructions within five Retail Business Days of the due date of the retail Customer’s bill, or if the Customer has paid after the due date, five Business Days after the MOU/EC TDSP has received payment.  Payment instruction shall cause the money to be deposited in the CR’s account.  There should not be more than five Business Days difference in the receipt of the payment instruction and the remittance advice.
24.4.2	Remittance Advice Total Matches Payment Total
(1)	The remittance advice must match the total payment.  The MOU/EC TDSP must ensure that the remittance advice and the payment instructions have the same (matching) trace/reference numbers.  A one-to-one correlation must be maintained between payments and remittance advice.  It is acceptable for one payment and one remittance advice to include many invoices.  It is not acceptable for several payments to reference one remittance advice.  Every payment trace/reference number sent via the bank must match a remittance advice trace/reference number sent to the CR.  The trace/reference number must be unique for each associated payment and remittance advice.
24.4.3	Negative Remittance Advice
(1)	A negative remittance advice is not allowed in the Texas market.  If the adjustments are larger than the payments (creating a negative remittance advice), payment must be held until the MOU/EC TDSP can submit a net positive remittance advice as a credit against the overpayment.  It is not necessary for a MOU/EC TDSP to hold an adjustment amount until the MOU/EC TDSP has accumulated sufficient Invoices to result in a complete offset of the overpayment.  Instead the MOU/EC TDSP may use the adjustment amount by taking a partial credit on another Invoice.  If the MOU/EC TDSP has determined that the negative remittance cannot be offset within a reasonable amount of time, the MOU/EC TDSP will contact the CR to resolve the situation.
24.4.4	Acceptable Payment Methods
(1)	Acceptable payment instruction methods are CCD+, CTX, check, and Fed wire.
24.4.5	Warehousing an 820 Remittance Advice
(1)	When the payment instruction and the remittance advice are generated separately, the CR may warehouse the 820_03, MOU/EC Remittance Advice, until the payment instructions received by the MOU/EC TDSP’s bank cause the money to be deposited in the CR’s account.
24.5	Maintain Customer Information Request
(1)	This transaction set, from a Competitive Retailer (CR) to a Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP), is used for CRs who have chosen Options 2 and 3 concerning service orders and/or outages.  A CR choosing Option 2 or 3 shall be required to provide the TDSP with the information necessary to verify CR’s retail Customer’s identity (name, address, and home or contact telephone number) for a particular point of delivery served by the CR and to continually provide the TDSP updates of such information.
24.5.1	Timing of 814_PC Maintain Customer Information Request from Competitive Retailer
(1)	This transaction shall be transmitted from the CR of Record to the TDSP in one Retail Business Day only after the CR has received an 867_04, Initial Meter Read, from the TDSP for that specific move in Customer.  Also, the CR shall not transmit this transaction and/or provide any updates to the TDSP after receiving a final reading via an 867_03, Monthly or Final Usage, for that specific move-out Customer.  The TDSP shall provide the 814_PD, Maintain Customer Information Response, in one Retail Business Day acknowledging receipt of the 814_PC, Maintain Customer Information Request, which would indicate that the TDSP accepts or rejects the transaction.
24.6	MOU/EC TDSP to CR Maintain Customer Information Request
(1)	This transaction set, from a Municipally Owned Utility (MOU)/Electric Cooperative (EC) Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) to the Competitive Retailer (CR), is used by the MOU/EC TDSP to provide the CR with Customer information (name, address, membership id, and home or contact telephone number) for a particular point of delivery served by both the MOU/EC TDSP and CR and to continually provide the CR updates of such information, unless otherwise indicated in Retail Market Guide Section 8.1, Municipally Owned Utility and/or Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Market.
24.6.1	Timing of 814_PC Maintain Customer Information Request from Municipally Owned Utility/Electric Cooperative Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider
(1)	This transaction shall be transmitted from the MOU/EC TDSP to the CR in one Retail Business Day upon an update in Customer information.  The CR shall provide the 814_PD, Maintain Customer Information Response, in one Retail Business Day acknowledging receipt of the 814_PC, Maintain Customer Information Request, which would indicate that the CR accepts or rejects the transaction. 

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 26:  Securitization Default Charges
April 1, 2025



 
26	Securitization default charges	26-1
26.1	Overview	26-1
26.2	Securitization Default Charges	26-1
26.3 	Securitization Default Charge Invoices	26-7
26.3.1	Payment Process for Securitization Default Charge Invoices	26-8
26.3.1.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Securitization Default Charge Invoices	26-8
26.3.1.2	Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Default Charge Invoices	26-9
26.4 	Securitization Default Charge Supporting Data Reporting	26-10
26.5	Securitization Default Charge Escrow Deposit Requirements	26-10
26.5.1 	Securitization Default Charge Escrow	26-11
26.5.2 	ERCOT Securitization Default Charge Credit Requirements for Counter-Parties	26-11
26.5.3	Means of Satisfying Securitization Default Charge Credit Requirements	26-11
26.5.4	Determination of Securitization Default Charge Credit Exposure for a Counter-Party	26-13
26.5.5	Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Securitization Default Charge Credit Exposure by ERCOT	26-13
26.5.6	Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants	26-15
26.5.7	Release of Market Participant’s Securitization Default Charge Escrow Deposit Requirement	26-15

 
Securitization default charges
26.1	Overview
(1)	This section establishes processes for the assessment of Securitization Default Charges and Securitization Default Charge credit requirements.
26.2	Securitization Default Charges 
(1)	ERCOT shall issue Invoices to Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) and Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holders to collect the monthly amount determined by ERCOT to be necessary to repay the Securitization Default Balance.  ERCOT may assess Securitization Default Charges over a period of up to 30 years.
(2)	Each Counter-Party’s share of the Securitization Default Charge for a month is calculated using the best available Settlement data for the most recent month for which ERCOT has posted Final Settlement data for all Operating Days in the month (referred to below as “the reference month”), as follows:
SDCRSCP cp = TSDCMA * SDCMMARS cp
Where:
SDCMMARS cp = SDCMMA cp / SDCMMATOT
SDCMMA cp = Max { ∑mp (SDCRTMG mp + SDCRTDCIMP mp), 
∑mp (SDCRTAML mp + SDCWSLTOT mp), 
∑mp SDCRTQQES mp, 
∑mp SDCRTQQEP mp, 
∑mp SDCDAES mp, 
∑mp SDCDAEP mp,
∑mp (SDCRTOBL mp + SDCRTOBLLO mp), 
∑mp (SDCDAOPT mp + SDCDAOBL mp + SDCOPTS mp + SDCOBLS mp), 
∑mp (SDCOPTP mp + SDCOBLP mp)} 
SDCMMATOT = ∑cp (SDCMMA cp)
Where:
SDCRTMG mp = ∑r, p, i (RTMG mp, r, p, i), excluding RTMG for Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Resources and RTMG in Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC)-Committed Intervals for RUC-committed Resources
SDCRTDCIMP mp = ∑p, i (RTDCIMP mp, p, i) / 4
SDCRTAML mp = max(0,∑p, i (RTAMLEXSECM mp, p, i))
SDCRTQQES mp = ∑p, i (RTQQES mp, p, i) / 4
SDCRTQQEP mp = ∑p, i (RTQQEP mp, p, i) / 4
SDCDAES mp = ∑p, h (DAES mp, p, h)
SDCDAEP mp = ∑p, h (DAEP mp, p, h)
SDCRTOBL mp = ∑(j, k), h (RTOBL mp, (j, k), h)
SDCRTOBLLO mp = ∑(j, k), h (RTOBLLO mp, (j, k), h)
SDCDAOPT mp = ∑(j, k), h (OPT mp, (j, k), h)
SDCDAOBL mp = ∑(j, k), h (DAOBL mp, (j, k), h)
SDCOPTS mp = ∑(j, k), h (OPTS mp, (j, k), h) 
SDCOBLS mp = ∑(j, k), h (OBLS mp, (j, k), h)
SDCOPTP mp = ∑(j, k), h (OPTP mp, j, h)
SDCOBLP mp = ∑(j, k), h (OBLP mp, (j, k), h)
SDCWSLTOT mp = (-1) * ∑r, b (MEBL mp, r, b)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
SDCRSCP cp	$	Securitization Default Charge Ratio Share per Counter-Party—The Counter-Party’s pro rata portion of the total Securitization Charges for a month. 
TSDCMA	$	Total Securitization Default Charge Monthly Amount—The amount ERCOT determines must be collected for the month in order to timely repay the Securitization Default Balance.
SDCMMARS cp	None	Securitization Default Charge Maximum MWh Activity Ratio Share—The Counter-Party’s pro rata share of Maximum MWh Activity.
SDCMMA cp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Maximum MWh Activity—The maximum MWh activity of all Market Participants represented by the Counter-Party in the DAM, RTM and CRR Auction for the reference month.
SDCMMATOT	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Maximum MWh Activity Total—The sum of all  Counter-Party’s Maximum MWh Activity.
RTMG mp, p, r, i	MWh	Real-Time Metered Generation per Market Participant per Settlement Point per Resource—The Real-Time energy produced by the Generation Resource r represented by Market Participant mp, at Resource Node p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Real-Time Metered Generation per Market Participant per Settlement Point per Resource—The Real-Time energy produced by the Resource r represented by Market Participant mp, at Resource Node p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.

SDCRTMG mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Real-Time Metered Generation per Market Participant—The monthly sum in the reference month of Real-Time energy produced by Generation Resources represented by Market Participant mp, excluding generation for RMR Resources and generation in RUC-Committed Intervals, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party. 
[NPRR1246:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
Securitization Default Charge Real-Time Metered Generation per Market Participant—The monthly sum in the reference month of Real-Time energy produced by Resources represented by Market Participant mp, excluding generation for RMR Resources and generation in RUC-Committed Intervals, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.

RTDCIMP mp, p, i	MW	Real-Time DC Import per QSE per Settlement Point—The aggregated Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedule submitted by Market Participant mp, as an importer into the ERCOT System through DC Tie p, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
SDCRTDCIMP mp	MW	Securitization Default Charge Real-Time DC Import per Market Participant—The monthly sum in the reference month of the aggregated DC Tie Schedule submitted by Market Participant mp, as an importer into the ERCOT System where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to a registered Counter-Party.
RTAMLEXSECM mp, p, i	MWh	Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load Excluding Load Exempt from Sub M per Market Participant per Settlement Point—The sum of the Adjusted Metered Load (AML), excluding Load that is exempt from Securitization Default Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) in PUCT Docket No. 56122, Petition of Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. for Expedited Declaratory Order Regarding Public Utility Regulatory Act Chapter 39, Subchapter M, at the Electrical Buses that are included in Settlement Point p represented by Market Participant mp for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
SDCRTAML mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load per Market Participant—The monthly sum in the reference month of the AML, excluding Load exempt from Securitization Default Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56122, represented by Market Participant mp, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
RTQQES mp, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale per Market Participant per Settlement Point—The amount of MW sold by Market Participant mp through Energy Trades at Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
SDCRTQQES mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge QSE-to-QSE Energy Sale per Market Participant—The monthly sum in the reference month of MW sold by Market Participant mp through Energy Trades, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
RTQQEP mp, p, i	MW	QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase per Market Participant per Settlement Point—The amount of MW bought by Market Participant mp through Energy Trades at Settlement Point p for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
SDCRTQQEP mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge QSE-to-QSE Energy Purchase per Market Participant—The monthly sum in the reference month of MW bought by Market Participant mp through Energy Trades, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
DAES mp, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Sale per Market Participant per Settlement Point per hour—The total amount of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s cleared Three-Part Supply Offers in the DAM and cleared DAM Energy-Only Offers at Settlement Point p, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
SDCDAES mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Day-Ahead Energy Sale per Market Participant—The monthly total in the reference month of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s cleared Three-Part Supply Offers in the DAM and cleared DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
DAEP mp, p, h	MW	Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per Market Participant per Settlement Point per hour—The total amount of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s cleared DAM Energy Bids at Settlement Point p for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a QSE.
[NPRR1188:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:] 
Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per Market Participant per Settlement Point per hour—The total amount of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves, cleared in the DAM, at Settlement Point p for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a QSE.

SDCDAEP mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per Market Participant—The monthly total in the reference month of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s cleared DAM Energy Bids, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
[NPRR1188:  Replace the definition above with the following upon system implementation:] 
Securitization Default Charge Day-Ahead Energy Purchase per Market Participant—The monthly total in the reference month of energy represented by Market Participant mp’s DAM Energy Bids and Energy Bid Curves, cleared in the DAM, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.

RTOBL mp, (j, k), h	MW	Real-Time Obligation per Market Participant per source and sink pair per hour—The number of Market Participant mp’s Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligations with the source j and the sink k settled in Real-Time for the hour h, and where the Market Participant is a QSE.
SDCRTOBL mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Real-Time Obligation per Market Participant—The monthly total in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligations settled in Real-Time, counting the quantity only once per source and sink pair, and where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
RTOBLLO q, (j, k)	MW	Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe total MW of the QSE’s PTP Obligation with Links to an Option Bids cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j and the sink k for the hour.
SDCRTOBLLO q, (j, k)	MW	Securitization Default Charge Real-Time Obligation with Links to an Option per QSE per pair of source and sinkThe monthly total in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s MW of PTP Obligation with Links to Options Bids cleared in the DAM and settled in Real-Time for the source j and the sink k for the hour, where the Market Participant is a QSE assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OPT mp, (j, k), h	MW	Day-Ahead Option per Market Participant per source and sink pair per hourThe number of Market Participant mp’s PTP Options with the source j and the sink k owned in the DAM for the hour h, and where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder. 
SDCDAOPT mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Day-Ahead Option per Market ParticipantThe monthly total in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s PTP Options owned in the DAM, counting the ownership quantity only once per source and sink pair, and where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
DAOBL mp, (j, k), h	MW	Day-Ahead Obligation per Market Participant per source and sink pair per hour—The number of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligations with the source j and the sink k owned in the DAM for the hour h, and where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.  
SDCDAOBL mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Day-Ahead Obligation per Market ParticipantThe monthly total in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligations owned in the DAM, counting the ownership quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OPTS mp, (j, k), a, h	MW	PTP Option Sale per Market Participant per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per hour—The MW quantity that represents the total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Option offers with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.
SDCOPTS mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge PTP Option Sale per Market Participant—The MW quantity that represents the monthly total in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s PTP Option offers awarded in CRR Auctions, counting the awarded quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OBLS mp, (j, k), a, h	MW	PTP Obligation Sale per Market Participant per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per hour—The MW quantity that represents the total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligation offers with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.
SDCOBLS mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge PTP Obligation Sale per Market Participant—The MW quantity that represents the monthly total in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligation offers awarded in CRR Auctions, counting the quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OPTP mp, (j, k), a, h	MW	PTP Option Purchase per Market Participant per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per hour—The MW quantity that represents the total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Option bids with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.
SDCOPTP mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge PTP Option Purchase per Market Participant—The MW quantity that represents the monthly total in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s PTP Option bids awarded in CRR Auctions, counting the quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
OBLP mp, (j, k), a, h	MW	PTP Obligation Purchase per Market Participant per source and sink pair per CRR Auction per hour—The MW quantity that represents the total of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligation bids with the source j and the sink k awarded in CRR Auction a, for the hour h, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder.
SDCOBLP mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge PTP Obligation Purchase per Market Participant—The MW quantity that represents the monthly total in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s PTP Obligation bids awarded in CRR Auctions, counting the quantity only once per source and sink pair, where the Market Participant is a CRR Account Holder assigned to the registered Counter-Party.
SDCWSLTOT mp	MWh	Securitization Default Charge Metered Energy for Wholesale Storage Load at bus per Market ParticipantThe monthly sum in the reference month of Market Participant mp’s Wholesale Storage Load (WSL) energy metered by the Settlement Meter which measures WSL.
MEBL mp, r, b	MWh	Metered Energy for Wholesale Storage Load at busThe WSL energy metered by the Settlement Meter which measures WSL for the 15-minute Settlement Interval represented as a negative value, for the Market Participant mp, Resource r, at bus b.  
cp	none	A registered Counter-Party.
mp	none	A Market Participant that is a QSE or CRR Account Holder with activity in the reference month, except for a Market Participant exempt from Securitization Default Charges pursuant to the Final Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 52321, Application of Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. for a Debt Obligation Order Pursuant to Chapter 39, Subchapter M.  Defaulted Market Participants with market activity in the reference month are included in the calculation.
j	none	A source Settlement Point.
k	none	A sink Settlement Point.
a	none	A CRR Auction.
p	none	A Settlement Point.
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval.
h	none	The hour that includes the Settlement Interval i.
r	none 	A Resource. 

(3)	The Securitization Default Charge amount will be allocated to the QSE or CRR Account Holder assigned to a registered Counter-Party based on the pro-rata share of MWhs that the QSE or CRR Account Holder contributed to its Counter-Party’s maximum MWh activity ratio share.
(4)	As needed, but no less than annually, ERCOT will conduct an evaluation to determine if the Total Securitization Default Charge Monthly Amount (TSDCMA), which is the amount collected each month to repay the Securitization Default Balance, should be modified.  In conducting this evaluation, ERCOT will calculate the amount that must be collected each month to service the then-remaining Securitization Default Balance debt in even monthly amounts over the remaining tenor of the debt. 
(5)	If ERCOT modifies the TSDCMA pursuant to paragraph (4) above, ERCOT will issue a Market Notice notifying Market Participants of the change no later than 15 days before the beginning of the month in which the new TSDCMA will be used to calculate the Securitization Default Charges. 
26.3 	Securitization Default Charge Invoices  
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare Securitization Default Charge Invoices on a monthly basis, as specified in Section 9.1.2, Settlement Calendar, on the seventh Business Day of a month.  Unless expressly stated otherwise, the publication of the Securitization Default Charge Invoices can occur as late as 2400 on the scheduled publication date.  The Market Participant to whom the Invoice is addressed (Invoice Recipient) is a payor.  
(2)	Each Invoice Recipient shall pay any debit shown on the Securitization Default Charge Invoice on the payment due date, whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the debit.
(3)	ERCOT shall post the Securitization Default Charge Invoice on the MIS Certified Area.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the Securitization Default Charge Invoice on the MIS Certified Area once posted by ERCOT, as described in Section 9.1.3, Settlement Statement and Invoice Access. 
(4)	The Securitization Default Charge Invoice must comply with the Settlement payment convention, as set forth in Section 9.1.5, Settlement Payment Convention. 
(5)	Securitization Default Charge Invoices must contain the following information:
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT);
(c)	Net Amount Owed– the charge owed by an Invoice Recipient;
(d)	Time Period – the reference month for which the Securitization Default Charge Invoice is generated; 
(e)	Run Date – the date on which the Invoice was created and published;
(f)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by ERCOT for payment tracking purposes;
(g)	Payment Date and Time – the date and time the Invoice amounts must be paid;
(h)	Remittance Information Details – details including the account number, bank name, and electronic transfer instructions of the ERCOT Securitization Default Charge account to which any amounts owed by the Invoice Recipient are to be paid; and
(i)	Overdue Terms – the terms that would apply if the payments were received late. 
(6) 	All disputes for Securitization Default Charge Invoices shall follow the process described in Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process.
26.3.1	Payment Process for Securitization Default Charge Invoices
(1)	Payments for Securitization Default Charge Invoices are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis in a process detailed below.
26.3.1.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Securitization Default Charge Invoices
(1)	The payment due date and time for Securitization Default Charge Invoices, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, is 1700 on the fifth Bank Business Day after the Securitization Default Charge Invoice date, unless fifth Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the fifth Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, then the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the fifth Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day. 
(2)	All Securitization Default Charge Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in U.S. Dollars (USDs) by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date.  EFTs must be with U.S. banks only.
(3)	Securitization Default Charge Invoices are distinct from other Invoices issued by ERCOT and must be paid by an EFT that is separate from any other Invoice.  An Invoice Recipient may not net amounts owing on a Securitization Default Charge Invoice with any other funds due to or from ERCOT. 
(4)	Payments for Securitization Default Charges must be made to the account listed on the Invoice.  If payment is not made to the correct account, the payment will be rejected. Failure to remit funds to the correct account may result in a Payment Breach.  The payment remark must include the Invoice number.
26.3.1.2	Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Default Charge Invoices 
(1)	If an Invoice Recipient owing funds does not pay its Securitization Default Charge Invoice in full (short-pay) by the payment due date and time set forth in Section 26.3.1.1, Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Securitization Default Charge Invoices, ERCOT shall follow the procedure set forth below:
(a)	ERCOT shall draw on any available Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits by the Invoice Recipient. 
(b)	If available Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits are insufficient to cover the short-paid amount, ERCOT will utilize Financial Security held with respect to other ERCOT market activities as determined in Section 16.11.4, Determination and Monitoring of Counter-Party Credit Exposure.  ERCOT may not utilize Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits to cover short-pays of Securitization Default Charges.
(c)	In the event that an Invoice Recipient short-pays:
(i)	Both a Securitization Default Charge Invoice and a Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice, or;
(ii)	One or both of the above securitization Invoices as well as any other ERCOT Invoice,
and it is necessary to utilize Financial Security held with respect to other ERCOT market activities, funds drawn from Financial Security will be allocated first to cover short-pays of Invoices for non-securitization activity.  Any remaining Financial Security will be allocated pro rata on the basis of unpaid Invoice amounts to Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices and Securitization Default Charge Invoices.
(d)	Regardless of whether ERCOT’s draw on available Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits or other Financial Security under paragraphs (a) through (c) above is sufficient to cover the amount owed by a Market Participant for a Securitization Default Charge Invoice, a Market Participant’s failure to pay the Invoice by the payment due date and time will still be deemed a Payment Breach under Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants.  
(e)	If an amount owed to ERCOT for a Securitization Default Charge Invoice cannot be fully recovered from a short-paying Market Participant by drawing upon available Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits, available Financial Security held with respect to other ERCOT market activities, or taking other action against the Market Participant to recover the amount owed, the remaining short payment amount will be taken into consideration in ERCOT’s next evaluation of the Total Securitization Default Charge Monthly Amount performed pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 26.2, Securitization Default Charges, that occurs after the short payment. 
(f)	Any action taken by under this Section does not relieve or otherwise excuse the short paying Market Participant of its obligation to fully pay all outstanding financial obligations to ERCOT, including is obligation to fully pay all Securitization Default Charge Invoices.
26.4	Securitization Default Charge Supporting Data Reporting
(1)	On a monthly basis, ERCOT shall post the following information on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area:
(a)	Securitization Default Charge Maximum MWh Activity (SDCMMA); 
(b)	Securitization Default Charge Maximum MWh Activity Total (SDCMMATOT); 
(c)	Securitization Default Charge Maximum MWh Activity Ratio Share (SDCMMARS); and 
(d)	Counter-Party level components of the SDCMMA calculation, as defined in paragraph (2) of Section 26.2, Securitization Default Charges. 
(2)	ERCOT shall post a report containing Initial Settlement data as such data becomes available.  The report shall be updated with Final Settlement data as such data becomes available.
26.5	Securitization Default Charge Escrow Deposit Requirements
26.5.1 	Securitization Default Charge Escrow
	The term “Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit” means the amount required to be deposited with ERCOT in the form of cash or an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit to be held in escrow for a Market Participant’s obligation to pay Securitization Default Charges.
	Although ERCOT is the servicer for the assessment and collection of Securitization Default Charges, by providing escrow deposits pursuant to this Section each Counter-Party grants the Texas Electric Market Stabilization Funding M LLC (TEMSFM) a secured interest in Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits to secure its obligation to pay the same. 
	The security interest of TEMSFM is perfected upon a Counter-Party’s deposit of cash or a letter of credit with ERCOT pursuant to this Section. 
26.5.2 	ERCOT Securitization Default Charge Credit Requirements for Counter-Parties  
	A Counter-Party must, at all times, maintain its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit at or above the amount of its Securitization Default Charge Credit Exposure (SDCCE).  Each Counter-Party shall maintain any required Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit in a form acceptable to ERCOT in its sole discretion pursuant to Section 26.5.3, Means of Satisfying Securitization Default Charge Credit Requirements. 
	If at any time a Counter-Party does not meet ERCOT’s SDCCE  requirements, then the Counter-Party will be considered to be in Payment Breach and ERCOT may suspend the Counter-Party’s rights under these Protocols until it meets the SDCCE requirements.  
	ERCOT’s failure to suspend a Counter-Party’s rights on any particular occasion does not prevent ERCOT from suspending those rights on any subsequent occasion, including a Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder’s ability to bid on future CRRs or a Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) ability to bid in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM). 
26.5.3	Means of Satisfying Securitization Default Charge Credit Requirements
(1)	If a Counter-Party is required to provide a Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit, then it may do so through one or both of the following means:
(a)	The Counter-Party may give an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit naming TEMSFM as the beneficiary.  ERCOT or the TEMSFM may reject the letter of credit if the issuer is unacceptable to ERCOT or TEMSFM or if the conditions under which ERCOT or TEMSFM may draw against the letter of credit are unacceptable to ERCOT or TEMSFM. 
(b)	All letters of credit must be drawn on a US domestic bank or a domestic office of a foreign bank, and must meet the requirements in Section 16.11.3, Alternative Means of Satisfying ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements. 
(c)	Letters of credit held as Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits are subject to letter of credit issuer limits as specified in paragraph (1) of Section 16.11.3.
(d)	The Counter-Party may deposit cash with TEMSFM through ERCOT with the understanding that ERCOT may draw part or all of the deposited cash to satisfy any overdue payments owed by the Counter-Party to ERCOT for Securitization Default Charges.  The cash deposits may bear interest payable directly to the Counter-Party, but any such arrangements may not restrict ERCOT’s immediate access to the cash.  
(i)	Interest on cash deposited pursuant to this Section will be calculated based on Counter-Party average cash deposit balance.  Interest is not paid on a cash deposit balance held by TEMSFM where, in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section 16.11.7, Release of Market Participant’s Financial Security Requirement, the Counter-Party’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement has been terminated and ERCOT has determined that no obligations for Securitization Default Charges remain owing or will become due and payable.
(ii)	Once per year, ERCOT will return interest earned on a Counter-Party’s cash deposits pursuant to this Section to the Counter-Party.
(2)	Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits are held solely for the purpose of collateralizing SDCCE and shall not be used for any other purpose.  They are independent of and in addition to any other Financial Security obligations of the Counter-Party arising under Section 16.11, Financial Security for Counter-Parties, or Section 27, Securitization Uplift Charges. 
(3)	Funds provided for Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits must be made to the account designated for Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits.  If a payment is not made to the correct account, ERCOT is not responsible for transferring the funds to the correct escrow deposit account.  Failure to remit funds to the correct account by the date and time required will result in a Late Payment and/or Payment Breach.
(4)	A Counter-Party with excess cash held with respect to one or more Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit requirements may request ERCOT to return some or all of the excess cash to the Counter-Party. 
(5)	Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits will not be used to pay periodic Securitization Default Charge Invoices unless there is an insufficient payment by the Invoice Recipient, in accordance with Section 26.3.1.2, Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Default Charge Invoices.
(6)	Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits in excess of the SDCCE requirement shall not be used to cover insufficient payments of Settlement Invoices for ERCOT market activities under Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients, or requests for additional Financial Security made in accordance with paragraph (6) of Section 16.11.5, Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Creditworthiness and Credit Exposure by ERCOT.  Further, Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits in excess of the SDCCE shall not be used to cover insufficient payments of Invoices or escrow deposit requirements under Section 27.
26.5.4	Determination of Securitization Default Charge Credit Exposure for a Counter-Party
(1)	For each Counter-Party, ERCOT shall calculate the SDCCE as follows:
SDCCE cp  =   SDCMMARS cp, rm  *  ∑_(fmd=1 )^nfmd▒(TSDCMA fmd)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
SDCCE cp	$	Securitization Default Charge Credit Exposure – Estimated credit exposure for each Counter-Party related to Securitization Default Charges.
SDCMMARS cp, rm	None	Securitization Default Charge Maximum MWh Activity Ratio Share – The Counter-Party’s pro rata share of Securitization Default Charge Maximum MWh Activity in the most recent available reference month rm based on Initial Settlements.
TSDCMA	$	Total Securitization Default Charge Monthly Amount – The amount ERCOT determines must be collected for the month in order to timely repay the Securitization Default Balance.
cp	none	A registered Counter-Party.
rm	none	Reference Month – most recent available operating month 
fmd	None	Forward Month – a month from Securitization Default Charge forward months
nfmd	None	Number of forward months – total number of forward months Securitization Default Charge is extrapolated
The above parameters are defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value
nfmd	Months	4
26.5.5	Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Securitization Default Charge Credit Exposure by ERCOT
(1)	Pursuant to Section 16.11.5, Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Creditworthiness and Credit Exposure by ERCOT, ERCOT shall monitor the credit exposure of each Counter-Party, including SDCCE.  
(2)	A Counter-Party is responsible at all times for maintaining Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits in an amount equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s SDCCE. 
(3)	ERCOT shall promptly notify each Counter-Party of the need to increase its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit and allow the Counter-Party time, as provided in paragraph (5) below, to provide additional Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits to maintain compliance with this Section. 
(4)	ERCOT may suspend a Counter-Party when that Counter-Party’s SDCCE, as defined in Section 26.5.4, Determination of Securitization Default Charge Credit Exposure for a Counter-Party, exceeds 100% of its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit.  Any failure by ERCOT to send a Notice as set forth in this Section does not relieve the Counter-Party from the obligation to maintain appropriate Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits in amounts equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s SDCCE. 
(5)	To the extent that a Counter-Party fails to maintain Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit in amounts equal to or greater than its SDCCE, each as defined in Section 26.5.4: 
(a)	ERCOT shall promptly notify the Counter-Party of the amount by which its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit must be increased and allow it: 
(i)	Until 1500 on the second Bank Business Day from the date on which ERCOT delivered the notice to increase its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit if ERCOT delivered its Notice before 1500; or 
(ii)	Until 1700 on the second Bank Business Day from the date on which ERCOT delivered notification to increase its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit if ERCOT delivered its notice after 1500 but prior to 1700.  
(b)	If the Counter-Party does not increase its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit to the required amount by the specified time, ERCOT may utilize Financial Security held with respect to other ERCOT market activities as determined under Section 16.11.4, Determination and Monitoring of Counter-Party Credit Exposure, up to the amount of the Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit shortfall. 
(c)	In the event that a Counter-Party is required to increase both its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit and its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit, and ERCOT utilizes the Counter-Party’s Financial Security, available Financial Security funds will be allocated on a pro rata basis to Securitization Uplift Charge and Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit requirements.
(d)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE’s Authorized Representative(s) and Credit Contact if it has not received the required security by 1530 on the Bank Business Day on which the security was due; however, failure to notify the Counter-Party’s representatives or credit contacts that the required security was not received does not prevent ERCOT from exercising any of its other rights under this Section.
(e)	ERCOT is not required to make any payment to a Counter-Party unless and until the Counter-Party increases its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit to an amount equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s SDCCE.  The payments that ERCOT may not make to a Counter-Party include Invoice receipts, CRR revenues, CRR credits, reimbursements for short payments, and any other reimbursements or credits under any other agreement between the Market Participant and ERCOT.  ERCOT may retain all such amounts until the Counter-Party has fully discharged all payment obligations owed to ERCOT under the Agreement, other agreements, and these Protocols. 
(6)	If a Counter-Party increases its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit as required by ERCOT by the deadline in paragraph (5)(a) above, then ERCOT shall release any payments held, providing the Counter-Party has no other payment deficiencies with respect to any other activity under these Protocols.
26.5.6	Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants
(1)	In the event of a Payment Breach or Late Payment by a Market Participant with respect to Securitization Default Charge Invoices or required Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits, all remedies specified in Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants, are applicable.
26.5.7	Release of Market Participant’s Securitization Default Charge Escrow Deposit Requirement
(1)	ERCOT shall continue to retain all Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits to cover, if necessary, potential future obligations for Securitization Default Charges. 
(2)	Upon ERCOT’s sole determination that all potential Securitization Default Charge Invoices have been paid, ERCOT shall return or release any remaining Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits to a terminated Market Participant.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols

Section 27:  Securitization Uplift Charges
October 1, 2024



 
27	Securitization Uplift Charges	27-1
27.1	Overview	27-1
27.2	Changes Involving Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities	27-1
27.2.1	Return of Securitization Proceeds	27-2
27.3	Securitization Uplift Charge	27-2
27.4	Securitization Uplift Charge Invoices	27-4
27.4.1	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices	27-4
27.4.2	Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices	27-5
27.4.3	Payment Process for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices	27-7
27.4.3.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices	27-7
27.4.4	Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices	27-7
27.4.5	Payment Process for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices	27-8
27.4.5.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices	27-8
27.4.5.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices	27-9
27.4.6	Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices	27-10
27.4.7	Enforcing the Financial Security of a Short-Paying Reallocation Invoice Recipient	27-11
27.5	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Escrow Deposit Requirements	27-11
27.5.1	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Escrow Deposits	27-11
27.5.2	ERCOT Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Credit Requirements for Counter-Parties	27-11
27.5.3	Means of Satisfying Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Credit Requirements	27-12
27.5.4	Determination of Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure for a Counter-Party	27-14
27.5.5	Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure by ERCOT	27-15
27.5.6	Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants	27-17
27.5.7	Release of a Market Participant’s Securitization Uplift Charge Escrow Deposit Requirement	27-17

 
Securitization Uplift Charges
27.1	Overview
(1)	This Section establishes processes for the assessment of Securitization Uplift Charges and Securitization Uplift Charge credit requirements. 
27.2	Changes Involving Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities
(1)	For purposes of the calculation of Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to Section 27.3, Securitization Uplift Charge, a change to the Retail Electric Provider (REP) of a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity that is a transmission-voltage Customer of a REP will be reflected upon completion of the Switch Request for that transmission-voltage Customer.  A REP is responsible for maintaining current records of transmission-voltage Customers that are Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities.  
(2)	ERCOT, in its discretion, may seek information from a REP or Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP) regarding a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity that is a transmission-voltage Customer of a REP if ERCOT has reason to believe that there has been a change of transmission-voltage Customer at an Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) associated with the Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity.  ERCOT may seek relief from the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) if ERCOT has reason to believe that there has been a change that disqualifies an ESI ID or the transmission-voltage Customer from continued treatment as a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity.
(3)	If a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity is an Electric Cooperative (EC), Municipally Owned Utility (MOU), or river authority, but is not registered with ERCOT as a Load Serving Entity (LSE), and registers with ERCOT as an LSE or changes its LSE, then ERCOT may, as part of the LSE registration process, request that the Market Participant notify ERCOT of the Market Participant’s status as a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity.  The failure of an EC, MOU, or river authority to notify ERCOT of its Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity status in the LSE registration process will not impact the Market Participant’s status as a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity.
(4)	A Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity that is a REP must notify ERCOT within five Business Days of filing an application to amend its REP certification status or option type with the PUCT.
(5)	A Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity that is a REP must notify ERCOT within five Business Days of the REP becoming the Competitive Retailer (CR) of Record for a Customer that is not an affiliate of the REP or that does not have the same corporate parent of the REP.
(6)	Subject to paragraph (2) above, if a transmission-voltage Customer of a REP is a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity, the only ESI IDs associated with the transmission-voltage Customer that will be included in the Adjusted Metered Load (AML) adjustments for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities made under Section 27.3 are the specific ESI IDs included in opt-out notifications filed by the opt-out deadline in PUCT Project No. 52364, Proceeding for Eligible Entities to File an Opt Out Pursuant to PURA § 39.653(d) and for Load-Serving Entities to File Documentation of Exposure to Costs Pursuant to the Debt Obligation Order in Docket No. 52322.  
27.2.1	Return of Securitization Proceeds 
(1)	If an LSE is required under PURA § 39.664 or the Debt Obligation Order in Docket No. 52322 to return securitization proceeds, then the LSE must remit the proceeds to its Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE), and the QSE shall remit those funds to ERCOT within two Business Days of the QSE receiving the funds from the LSE.  The funds must be paid by the QSE to the account designated for payment of Securitization Uplift Charge Invoices. 
27.3	Securitization Uplift Charge 
(1)	ERCOT shall allocate to Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) representing obligated Load Serving Entities (LSEs), the Securitization Uplift Charge that is to be collected for the Operating Day.  The resulting charge to each QSE for the Operating Day is calculated as follows:
LASUCAMT q, d	=	SUCDA d * DQSELSELRS q, d
Where:
DQSELSELRS q, d = DQSELSERTAML q, d / DERCOTQSELSERTAML d
DQSELSERTAML q, d = max(0, ∑_(i,l)^ ▒(LSERTAML l, q, i)) 
DERCOTQSELSERTAML d =∑_q^ ▒(DQSELSERTAML q, d)
LSERTAML l, q, i = PRELIMLSERTAML l, q, i – OPTOUTLSERTAML l, q, i 
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Definition
LASUCAMT q, d	$	Load-Allocated Securitization Uplift Charge Amount per QSE — The charge allocated to QSE q, for the QSE’s share of the total amount of Securitization Uplift Charges assessed for Operating Day d.
SUCDA d	$	Securitization Uplift Charge Daily Amount — The total amount of Securitization Uplift Charges assessed for Operating Day d.
DQSELSELRS q, d	none	Daily QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Load Ratio Share — The ratio of Daily QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (DQSELSERTAML) to Daily ERCOT QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (DERCOTQSELSERTAML), for a QSE q, for the Operating Day d.  
PRELIMLSERTAML l, q, i	MWh	Preliminary Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load — The Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (RTAML), including the RTAML of Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities that are Customers of Retail Electric Providers (REPs), but excluding the RTAML of Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities that are LSEs and excluding Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports, for LSE l represented by QSE q, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
LSERTAML l, q, i	MWh	Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load — The Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (RTAML), excluding the RTAML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities, Load that is exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) in PUCT Docket No. 56119, Petition of Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. for Expedited Declaratory Order Regarding Public Utility Regulatory Act Chapter 39, Subchapter N, and DC Tie exports, for LSE l represented by QSE q, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
OPTOUTLSERTAML l, q, i	MWh	Opt-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load — The Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (RTAML) of Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities that are transmission-voltage Customers and Load exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56119 for LSE l represented by QSE q, for the 15-minute Settlement Interval i.
DQSELSERTAML q, d	MWh	Daily QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load — The Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (RTAML), excluding the RTAML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities, Load exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56119, and DC Tie exports, for a QSE q, for the Operating Day d.
DERCOTQSELSERTAML d	MWh	Daily ERCOT QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load — The ERCOT total Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (RTAML), excluding the RTAML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities, Load exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56119, and DC Tie exports, for the Operating Day d.
q	none	A QSE
l	none	An LSE
d	none	An Operating Day
i	none	A 15-minute Settlement Interval
(2)	As needed, but no less often than quarterly, ERCOT will, to ensure the Securitization Uplift Charge is repaid in substantially equal payments over its term, conduct an evaluation to: 
(a)	Calculate under-collections or over-collections from the preceding evaluation period;
(b)	Estimate any anticipated under-collections or over-collections for the current or upcoming evaluation period; and
(c)	Calculate the periodic billing requirement for the upcoming evaluation period, taking into account the total amount of prior and anticipated over-collection and under-collection amounts, and calculate the Securitization Uplift Charge Daily Amount for future periodic billing requirements.
(3)	If it is determined in the re-estimation process that the Securitization Uplift Charge Daily Amount needs to be revised, ERCOT will issue a Market Notice notifying Market Participants of the change no later than 15 calendar days before the Operating Day in which the new Securitization Uplift Charge Daily Amount will become effective. 
(4)	An LSE that is not a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity is responsible for remitting payment to its QSE for the LSE’s share of the Securitization Uplift Charge, based on the LSE’s Non-Opted-Out LSE Adjusted Metered Load (AML).  An LSE may not pass through the Securitization Uplift Charge to any transmission-voltage Customer that is a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity.  ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website a list that consists solely of every Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) associated with a transmission-voltage Customer that is a Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entity.  This list of ESI IDs will not include the identity of the Customer or its Retail Electric Provider (REP).
27.4	Securitization Uplift Charge Invoices
27.4.1	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices for the Securitization Uplift Charge, as described in Section 27.3, Securitization Uplift Charge, using Initial Settlement data.  ERCOT shall issue Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices for an Operating Day on the same Business Day that Real-Time Market (RTM) Initial Statements are posted to the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area for the same Operating Day.  ERCOT will post the dates that it will issue the Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices under Section 9.1.2, Settlement Calendar.  Unless expressly stated otherwise, the publication of Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices can occur as late as 2400 on the scheduled publication date.  The Invoice Recipient to whom the Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice is addressed is a net payor.
(2)	Each Invoice Recipient shall pay any net debit shown on the Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice on the payment due date, whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the debit.
(3)	ERCOT shall post Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices on the MIS Certified Area.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice on the MIS Certified Area once posted by ERCOT, as described in Section 9.1.3, Settlement Statement and Invoice Access.
(4)	The Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice must comply with Settlement payment conventions, as set forth in Section 9.1.5, Settlement Payment Convention. 
(5)	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice items must be sorted by Operating Day.  Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices must contain the following information:
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT);
(c)	Run Date – the date on which the Invoice was created and published;
(d)	Payment Date and Time – the date and time that Invoice amounts are to be paid;
(e)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by ERCOT for payment tracking purposes;
(f)	Net Amount Owed – the aggregate summary of all charges owed by the Invoice Recipient;
(g)	Time Periods – the time period covered for each line item, including Operating Day, Settlement Type (Initial) and Settlement Version Number;
(h)	Remittance Information Details – details including the account number, bank name and electronic transfer instructions of the ERCOT Securitization Uplift Charge account to which any amounts owed by the Invoice Recipient are to be paid; and
(i)	Overdue Terms – the terms that would be applied if payments were received late.
(6)	All disputes for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices shall follow the process described in Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process.
27.4.2	Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices
(1)	ERCOT shall prepare Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices on a net basis for Securitization Uplift Charges, as described in Section 27.3, Securitization Uplift Charge, based on RTM Final Settlement, True-Up Settlement, and Resettlement data.  ERCOT shall issue Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices for an Operating Day on the same Business Day that the Statements for RTM Final Settlements, True-Up Settlements and Resettlements are posted to the MIS Certified Area for the same Operating Day.  ERCOT will post the dates that it will issue the Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices under Section 9.1.2, Settlement Calendar.  Unless expressly stated otherwise, the publication of Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices can occur as late as 2400 on the scheduled publication date.  The Invoice Recipient to whom the Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice is addressed is either a net payee or net payor.
(2)	A Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice will reflect differences to financial records generated on the previous Settlement for a given Operating Day.
(3)	Each Invoice Recipient shall pay any net debit and be entitled to receive any net credit shown on the Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice on the payment due date, whether or not there is any Settlement and billing dispute regarding the amount of the debit or credit.
(4)	ERCOT shall post Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices on the MIS Certified Area.  The Invoice Recipient is responsible for accessing the Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice on the MIS Certified Area once posted by ERCOT, as described in Section 9.1.3, Settlement Statement and Invoice Access. 
(5)	The Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice must comply with Settlement payment conventions, as set forth in Section 9.1.5, Settlement Payment Convention. 
(6)	Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice items must be grouped by RTM Final, RTM True-Up and RTM Resettlement categories and must be sorted by Operating Day within each category. Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices must contain the following information:
(a)	The Invoice Recipient’s name;
(b)	The ERCOT identifier (Settlement identification number issued by ERCOT);
(c)	Run Date – the date on which the Invoice was created and published;
(d)	Payment Date and Time – the date and time that Invoice amounts are to be paid or received;
(e)	Invoice Reference Number – a unique number generated by ERCOT for payment tracking purposes;
(f)	Net Amount Owed/Due – the aggregate summary of all charges owed by or due to the Invoice Recipient;
(g)	Time Periods – the time period covered for each line item, including Operating Day, Settlement Type (Final, True-Up or Resettlement) and Settlement Version Number;
(h)	Remittance Information Details – details including the account number, bank name and electronic transfer instructions of the ERCOT account to which any amounts owed by the Invoice Recipient are to be paid or of the Invoice Recipient’s account from which ERCOT may draw payments due; and
(i)	Overdue Terms – the terms that would be applied if payments were received late.
(7)	All disputes for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices shall follow the process described in Section 9.14, Settlement and Billing Dispute Process.
27.4.3	Payment Process for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices
(1)	Payments for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis as detailed below.
27.4.3.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices
(1)	The payment due date and time for the Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, is 1700 on the second Bank Business Day after the Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice date, unless the second Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the second Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the second Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day.
(2)	All Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in U.S. Dollars (USDs) by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date.  EFTs must be with U.S. banks only.
(3)	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices are distinct from other Invoices issued by ERCOT and must be paid by an EFT that is separate from any other Invoice. An Invoice Recipient may not net amounts owing on a Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice with any other funds due to or from ERCOT.
(4)	Payments for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices must be made to the account listed on the Invoice.  If payment is not made to the correct account, the payment will be rejected.  Failure to remit funds to the correct account may result in a Late Payment and Payment Breach.  The payment remarks must include the Invoice number.
27.4.4	Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices
(1)	If at least one Invoice Recipient owing funds does not pay its Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice in full (short-pay) by the payment due date and time set forth in Section 27.4.1, Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices, ERCOT shall follow the procedure set forth below: 
(a)	ERCOT shall draw on any available Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit of the short-paying Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Recipient. 
(b)	If available Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits are insufficient to cover the short-pay amount, ERCOT may utilize Financial Security held with respect to other ERCOT market activities as determined under Section 16.11.4, Determination and Monitoring of Counter-Party Credit Exposure.  ERCOT may not utilize Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits to cover short-pays of Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices. 
(c)	In the event that an Invoice Recipient short-pays: 
(i)	Both a Securitization Default Charge Invoice and a Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice; or 
(ii)	One or both of the above securitization Invoices as well as any other ERCOT Invoice,
and it is necessary to utilize Financial Security held with respect to other ERCOT market activities, funds drawn from Financial Security will be allocated first to cover short-pays of Invoices for non-securitization activity.  Any remaining Financial Security will be allocated pro rata on the basis of unpaid Invoice amounts to Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices and Securitization Default Charge Invoices.
(d)	Regardless of whether ERCOT’s draw on an available Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits or other Financial Security under paragraphs (a) through (c) above is sufficient to cover the amount owed by a Market Participant for an Initial Invoice for Securitization Uplift Charges, a Market Participant’s failure to pay the Initial Invoice by the payment due date and time will still be deemed a Late Payment and Payment Breach under Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants.  
(e)	If an amount owed to ERCOT for an Initial Invoice for Securitization Uplift Charges cannot be fully recovered from a short-paying Market Participant by drawing upon available Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits or taking other action against the Market Participant to recover the amount owed, the remaining short payment amount will be taken into consideration in ERCOT’s next evaluation of the Securitization Uplift Charge Daily Amount performed pursuant to paragraph (2) of Section 27.3, Securitization Uplift Charge, that occurs after the short payment. 
(f)	Any action taken by ERCOT under this Section does not relieve or otherwise excuse the short-paying Market Participant of its obligation to fully pay all outstanding financial obligations to ERCOT, including its obligation to fully pay all Initial Invoices for Securitization Uplift Charges.
27.4.5	Payment Process for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices
(1)	Payments for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices are due on a Business Day and Bank Business Day basis as detailed below.
27.4.5.1	Invoice Recipient Payment to ERCOT for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices
(1)	The payment due date and time for the Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, is 1700 on the second Bank Business Day after the Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice date, unless the second Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If the second Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after the second Bank Business Day that is also a Business Day.
(2)	All Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices due, with funds owed by an Invoice Recipient, must be paid to ERCOT in USDs by EFT in immediately available or good funds (i.e., not subject to reversal) on or before the payment due date.  EFTs must be with U.S. banks only.
(3)	The Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices are distinct from other Invoices issued by ERCOT.  An Invoice Recipient may not net amounts owing on a Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice with any other funds due to or from ERCOT.
(4)	Payments for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices must be made to the account listed on the Invoice.  The payment remarks must include the Invoice number. If payment is not made to the correct account, the payment will be rejected.  Failure to remit funds to the correct account may result in a Late Payment and Payment Breach. 
27.4.5.2	ERCOT Payment to Invoice Recipients for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices
(1)	Subject to the availability of funds as discussed in paragraph (2) below, ERCOT must pay Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices with funds owed to an Invoice Recipient by 1700 on the next Bank Business Day after payments are due for that Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice under Section 27.4.5, Payment Process for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices, subject to ERCOT’s right to withhold payments for any reason set forth in these Protocols or as a matter of law, unless that next Bank Business Day is not a Business Day.  If that next Bank Business Day is not a Business Day, the payment is due on the next Bank Business Day thereafter that is also a Business Day. 
(2)	ERCOT shall give irrevocable instructions to the ERCOT financial institution to remit to each Invoice Recipient for same day value the amounts determined by ERCOT to be available for payment to that Invoice Recipient under Section 27.4.6, Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices. 
27.4.6	Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices
(1)	If at least one Invoice Recipient owing funds does not pay its Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice in full (short-pay), ERCOT shall follow the procedure set forth below:
(a)	ERCOT shall make every reasonable attempt to collect payment from each short-paying Invoice Recipient before any payments owed by ERCOT for that Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice are due to be paid to applicable Invoice Recipient(s). 
(b)	ERCOT shall draw on any available Financial Security, other than Securitization Default Charge escrow deposits or Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits, pledged to ERCOT by the short-paying Invoice Recipient.  
(c)	Regardless of whether ERCOT’s draw on available Financial Security under paragraph (b) above is sufficient to cover the amount owed by a Market Participant for a Securitization Uplift Charges, a Market Participant’s failure to pay the Invoice by the payment due date and time will still be deemed a Payment Breach under Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants.
(d)	ERCOT shall offset or recoup any amounts owed, or to be owed, by ERCOT for a Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice to a short-paying Invoice Recipient, and ERCOT shall apply the amount offset or recouped to cover payment shortfalls by that Invoice Recipient for Invoices other than Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices and Securitization Default Charge Invoices.
(e)	If, after taking the actions set forth in the paragraphs above, and subject to paragraph (f) below, ERCOT still does not have sufficient funds to pay all amounts that it owes to Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice Recipients in full, ERCOT shall reduce payments to all Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice Recipients owed monies from ERCOT.  The reductions shall be based on a pro rata basis of monies owed to each Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice Recipient, to the extent necessary to clear ERCOT’s accounts on the payment due date to achieve revenue neutrality for ERCOT as to Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices.  ERCOT shall provide to all Market Participants payment details on all short payments and subsequent reimbursements of short pays.  Details must include the identity of each short-paying Invoice Recipient and the dollar amount attributable to that Invoice Recipient, broken down by Invoice numbers.  In addition, ERCOT shall provide the aggregate total of all amounts due to all Invoice Recipients before applying the amount not paid on the Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice.
(f)	For a short-paying Market Participant whose Standard Form Market Participant Agreement has been terminated, if, after taking the actions set forth in the paragraphs (a) through (d) above, ERCOT still does not have sufficient funds to pay amounts owed to Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice Recipients in full, ERCOT will draw on any Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit amounts remaining after all Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices for the short-paying Market Participant have been paid in full, in order to recover remaining unpaid Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice amounts.  
27.4.7	Enforcing the Financial Security of a Short-Paying Reallocation Invoice Recipient
(1)	ERCOT shall make reasonable efforts to enforce the Financial Security of the short-paying Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoice Recipient (pursuant to Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants) to the extent necessary to cover the short-pay.  A short-paying Invoice Recipient shall restore the level of its Financial Security as required under Section 27.5.2, ERCOT Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Credit Requirements for Counter-Parties.
27.5	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Escrow Deposit Requirements
27.5.1	Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Escrow Deposits
(1)	The term “Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit” means the amount required to be deposited with ERCOT in the form of cash or an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit to be held in escrow for a Market Participant’s obligation to pay Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices.
(2)	Although ERCOT is the servicer for the assessment and collection of Securitization Uplift Charges, by providing escrow deposits pursuant to this Section each Counter-Party grants the Texas Electric Market Stabilization Funding N LLC (TEMSFN) a secured interest in Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits to secure its obligation to pay the same. 
(3)	The secured interest of TEMSFN is perfected upon a Counter-Party’s deposit of cash or a letter of credit pursuant to this Section.
27.5.2	ERCOT Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Credit Requirements for Counter-Parties
(1)	A Counter-Party must, at all times, maintain its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit at or above the amount of its Load-Allocated Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure (LASUCCE), as determined pursuant to Section 27.5.4, Determination of Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure for a Counter-Party.  Each Counter-Party shall maintain any required Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit in a form acceptable to ERCOT in its sole discretion pursuant to Section 27.5.3, Means of Satisfying Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Credit Requirements, below.  
(2)	If at any time the Counter-Party does not meet ERCOT’s LASUCCE requirements, then the Counter-Party will be considered to be in Payment Breach and ERCOT may suspend the Counter-Party’s rights and/or take other action authorized under these Protocols until the Counter-Party meets the LASUCCE requirements.
(3)	ERCOT’s failure to suspend a Counter-Party’s rights on any particular occasion does not prevent ERCOT from suspending those rights on any subsequent occasion, including a Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder’s ability to bid on future CRRs or a Qualified Scheduling Entity’s (QSE’s) ability to bid in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM). 
27.5.3	Means of Satisfying Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoice Credit Requirements
(1)	If a Counter-Party is required to provide a Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit, then it may do so through one or both of the following means:
(a)	The Counter-Party may give an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit naming TEMSFN as the beneficiary.  ERCOT or the TEMSFN may reject the letter of credit if the issuer is unacceptable to ERCOT or the TEMSFN or if the conditions under which ERCOT or TEMSFN may draw against the letter of credit are unacceptable to ERCOT or TEMSFN.
(b)	All letters of credit must be drawn on a U.S. domestic bank or a domestic office of a foreign bank, and must meet the requirements in Section 16.11.3, Alternative Means of Satisfying ERCOT Creditworthiness Requirements. 
(c)	Letters of credit held as Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits are subject to letter of credit issuer limits as specified in paragraph (1) of Section 16.11.3.
(d)	The Counter-Party may deposit cash with TEMSFN through ERCOT with the understanding that ERCOT may draw part or all of the deposited cash to satisfy any overdue payments owed by the Counter-Party to ERCOT for Securitization Uplift Charges.  The cash deposits may bear interest payable directly to the Counter-Party, but any such arrangements may not restrict ERCOT’s immediate access to the cash.  
(i)	Interest on cash deposited pursuant to this Section will be calculated based on Counter-Party average cash deposit balances.  Interest is not paid on cash deposit balances held by TEMSFN where, in accordance with paragraph (4) of Section 16.11.7, Release of Market Participant’s Financial Security Requirement, the Counter-Party’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement has been terminated and ERCOT has determined that no obligations for Securitization Uplift Charges remain owing or will become due and payable.
(ii)	Once per year, ERCOT will return interest earned on a Counter-Party’s cash deposits pursuant to this Section to the Counter-Party.
(2)	Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits are held solely for the purpose of collateralizing Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure and shall not be used for any other purpose.  They are independent of and in addition to any other Financial Security obligations of the Counter-Party arising under Section 16.11, Financial Security for Counter-Parties, or Section 26, Securitization Default Charges. 
(3)	Funds provided for Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits must be made to the account designated for Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits.  If a payment is not made to the correct account, ERCOT is not responsible for transferring the funds to the correct escrow deposit account.  Failure to remit funds to the correct account by the date and time required will result in a Late Payment and/or Payment Breach.
(4)	A Counter-Party with excess cash with respect to Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit requirements may request ERCOT to return some or all of the excess cash to the Counter-Party.
(5)	Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits will not be used to pay periodic Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices unless there is an insufficient payment by the Invoice Recipient, in accordance with Section 27.4.4, Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices.
(6)	Cash collateral posted in accordance with Section 16.11.3 may be used to pay Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices.
(7)	Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits in excess of the Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure requirement shall not be used to cover insufficient payments of Settlement Invoices for:
(a)	ERCOT market activities under Section 9.19, Partial Payments by Invoice Recipients;
(b)	Requests for additional Financial Security made in accordance with paragraph (6) of Section 16.11.5, Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Creditworthiness and Credit Exposure by ERCOT;
(c)	Insufficient payments of Securitization Default Charge Invoices under Section 26.3.1.2, Insufficient Payments by Invoice Recipients for Securitization Default Charge Invoices; or
(d)	Requests for Securitization Default Charge Escrow Deposits under Section 26.5, Securitization Default Charge Escrow Deposit Requirements.
27.5.4	Determination of Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure for a Counter-Party
(1)	For each Counter-Party, ERCOT shall calculate the Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices as follows:
LASUCCE cp =    ∑_(fmu=1)^nfmu▒(Max (CPMQSELSELRS cp, om, las, CPIEMLSELRS cp up to 40 days after the operating month in which a non-opted-out Counter-Party Load Serving Entity (LSE) commences having Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (AML)) * MTSUCDA fmu) 
CPMQSELSELRS cp, om, las = ∑_q▒(MQSELSELRS q, om)
CPIEMLSELRS cp = CPIEMLSE cp / (MERCOTQSELSERTAML om + CPIEMLSE cp)
MQSELSELRS q, om = MQSELSERTAML q, om / MERCOTQSELSERTAML om
MQSELSERTAML q, om = ∑_d▒(DQSELSERTAML q, d)
MERCOTQSELSERTAML om = ∑_(q,d)^ ▒(DQSELSERTAML q, d)
The above variables are defined as follows:
Variable	Unit	Description
LASUCCE cp	$	Load-Allocated Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure — Estimated forward exposure representing unbilled Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices for Counter-Party cp for nfmu months.
CPMQSELSELRS cp, om, las	None	Counter-Party Monthly QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Load Ratio Share — MQSELSELRS for all the QSEs represented by the Counter-Party cp representing the daily ratios of AML to the total AML, excluding the AML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities, Load exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56119, Petition of Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. for Expedited Declaratory Order Regarding Public Utility Regulatory Act Chapter 39, Subchapter N, and Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports, for a QSE, for all the Operating Days d in the operating month om for the Settlement Type las.  
CPIEMLSE cp	MWh	Counter-Party Initial Estimated Monthly Non-Opted-Out LSE Load — The average estimated Load for a full month provided by a non-opted-out Counter-Party cp that does not yet have AML.
CPIEMLSELRS cp	None	Counter-Party Initial Estimated Monthly Non-Opted-Out LSE Load Ratio Share — The Load Ratio Share (LRS) for a Counter-Party cp that does not yet have AML, computed using CPIEMLSE.
MTSUCDA	$	Monthly Total of Securitization Uplift Charge Daily Amounts — The monthly sum of the amounts to be uplifted for all the Operating Days od in operating month om. 
DQSELSERTAML q, d	MWH	Daily QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load — The Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load (RTAML) excluding the RTAML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities, Load exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56119, and DC Tie exports, for a QSE q, for the Operating Day d.
MQSELSELRS q, om	none	Monthly QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Load Ratio Share — The ratio of AML to the total AML, excluding the AML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities, Load exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56119, and DC Tie exports, for a QSE q, for all the Operating Days d in the operating month om.
MQSELSERTAML q, om	MWH	Monthly QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load — The RTAML excluding the RTAML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities, Load exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56119, and DC Tie exports, for a QSE q, for all the Operating Days d in the operating month om.
MERCOTQSELSERTAML om	MWH	Monthly ERCOT QSE Non-Opted-Out LSE Real-Time Adjusted Metered Load — The ERCOT total RTAML excluding the RTAML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities, Load exempt from Securitization Uplift Charges pursuant to the Declaratory Order entered by the PUCT in PUCT Docket No. 56119, and DC Tie exports, for all the Operating Days d in the operating month om.
cp	none	A registered Counter-Party.
om	none	Operating Month — The most recent month for which all the daily ratios of AML to the total AML, excluding the AML for Securitization Uplift Charge Opt-Out Entities and DC Tie exports, for a QSE are available for all days of the month.
fmu	none	Forward Month — A month from Securitization Uplift Charge forward months.
nfmu	none	Number of Forward Months — Total number of forward months Monthly Securitization Uplift Charge is extrapolated.
d	none	An Operating Day.
The above parameters are defined as follows:
Parameter	Unit	Current Value
nfmu	Months	2
las	Settlement Type	Load-Allocated Initial Settlements
27.5.5	Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure by ERCOT
(1)	Pursuant to Section 16.11.5, Monitoring of a Counter-Party’s Creditworthiness and Credit Exposure by ERCOT, ERCOT shall monitor the credit exposure of each Counter-Party, including Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure.  
(2)	A Counter-Party is responsible at all times for maintaining Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits in an amount equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure. 
(3)	ERCOT shall promptly notify each Counter-Party of the need to increase its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit and allow the Counter-Party time, as provided in paragraph (5) below, to provide additional Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits to maintain compliance with this Section. 
(4)	ERCOT may suspend a Counter-Party when that Counter-Party’s LASUCCE, as defined in Section 27.5.4, Determination of Securitization Uplift Charge Credit Exposure for a Counter-Party, equals or exceeds 100% of its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit.  Any failure by ERCOT to send a Notice as set forth in this Section does not relieve the Counter-Party from the obligation to maintain appropriate Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits in amounts equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s LASUCFME. 
(5)	To the extent that a Counter-Party fails to maintain Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits in amounts equal to or greater than its LASUCCE, as defined in Section 27.5.4:
(a)	ERCOT shall promptly notify the Counter-Party of the amount by which its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit must be increased and allow it: 
(i)	Until 1500 on the second Bank Business Day from the date on which ERCOT delivered the Notice to increase its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit if ERCOT delivered its Notice before 1500; or 
(ii)	Until 1700 on the second Bank Business Day from the date on which ERCOT delivered Notification to increase its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit if ERCOT delivered its Notice after 1500 but prior to 1700.  
(b)	If the Counter-Party does not increase its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit to the required amount by the specified time, ERCOT may utilize Financial Security held with respect to other ERCOT market activities as determined under Section 16.11.4, Determination and Monitoring of Counter-Party Credit Exposure, up to the amount of the Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit shortfall. 
(c)	In the event that a Counter-Party is required to increase both its Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit and its Securitzation Uplift Charge escrow deposit, and ERCOT utilizes the Counter-Party’s Financial Security, available Financial Security funds will be allocated on a pro rata basis to Securitization Uplift Charge and Securitization Default Charge escrow deposit requirements.
(d)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE’s Authorized Representative(s) and Credit Contact if it has not received the required security by 1530 on the Bank Business Day on which the security was due; however, failure to notify the Counter-Party’s representatives or credit contacts that the required security was not received does not prevent ERCOT from exercising any of its other rights under this Section.
(e)	ERCOT is not required to make any payment to that Counter-Party unless and until the Counter-Party increases its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit to an amount equal to or greater than that Counter-Party’s LASUCCE.  The payments that ERCOT will not make to a Counter-Party include Invoice receipts, CRR revenues, CRR credits, reimbursements for short payments, and any other reimbursements or credits under any other agreement between the Market Participant and ERCOT.  ERCOT may retain all such amounts until the Counter-Party has fully discharged all payment obligations owed to ERCOT under the Counter-Party Agreement, other agreements, and these Protocols. 
(6)	If a Counter-Party increases its Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposit as required by ERCOT by the deadline in paragraph (5)(a) above, then ERCOT shall release any payments held, providing the Counter-Party has no other payment deficiencies with respect to any other activity under these Protocols.
27.5.6	Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants
(1)	In the event of a Payment Breach or Late Payment by a Market Participant with respect to Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices, Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices, or required Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits, all remedies specified in Section 16.11.6, Payment Breach and Late Payments by Market Participants, are applicable.
27.5.7	Release of a Market Participant’s Securitization Uplift Charge Escrow Deposit Requirement
(1)	Following the termination of a Market Participant’s Standard Form Market Participant Agreement, ERCOT shall retain all Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits to cover, if necessary, potential future obligations for Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices and Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices.
(2)	Upon ERCOT’s sole determination that all potential Securitization Uplift Charge Initial Invoices and Securitization Uplift Charge Reallocation Invoices have been paid, ERCOT shall return or release any remaining Securitization Uplift Charge escrow deposits to the terminated Market Participant.

ERCOT Fee Schedule
Effective October 1, 2024

The following is a schedule of ERCOT fees currently in effect.  These fees are not refundable unless ERCOT Protocols provide otherwise.
Description 	Nodal Protocol Reference
	Calculation/Rate/Comment
Private Wide Area Network (WAN) fees	9.16.2	Actual costs of procuring, using, maintaining, and connecting to the third-party communications networks and related hardware that provide ERCOT WAN communications.  The portion of costs for ERCOT’s work regarding an initial installation or reconfiguration of an existing installation will not exceed $7,000.  The portion of the monthly network management fee for ERCOT’s work will not exceed $450 per month.
ERCOT Load Resource Registration and Generator Interconnection or Modification fees	NA	$500 for registration of a new Load Resource. 
If a Resource Entity seeks to increase the MW size of an existing Load Resource by more than 20% or change the Load Resource’s registration between non-Controllable Load Resource and Controllable Load Resource, it will incur a registration fee of $500.
The term “generator,” as used in this fee schedule relating to interconnection fees and Full Interconnection Study (FIS) Application fees, includes Generation Resources, Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), and Settlement Only Generators (SOGs) but, as reflected below, Settlement Only Distribution Generators (SODGs) will incur a different fee amount than transmission connected SOGs.  The following fee amounts apply for the registration of a new generator:  
$2,300 for SODGs; 
$8,000 for generators that are less than 10 MW (other than SODGs); and
$14,000 for generators that are 10 MW or greater.
If a Resource Entity for an existing SODG seeks to change its registration to a Distribution Generation Resource (DGR) it will incur a registration fee of $8,000.
If a Resource Entity seeks to make a modification that is covered by paragraph (1)(c) of Planning Guide Section 5.2.1, Applicability, to an existing generator it will incur a registration fee in association with the modification request.  If, at the time the modification is submitted, the cumulative MW amount of the modification and any other modifications that have been submitted for that generator within the last 12 months amount to less than 10 MW, the registration fee will be $2,300.  If, at the time the modification is submitted, the cumulative MW amount of the modification and any other modifications that have been submitted for that generator within the last 12 months amount to 10 MW or greater, the registration fee will be $14,000.
Full Interconnection Study (FIS) Application fee	NA	$3,000 for an FIS Application relating to a new generator.
$2,700 for an FIS Application relating to modification of an existing generator.
Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Application fee	9.16.2	$500 per Entity
Subordinate QSE (Sub-QSE) Application fee	9.16.2	$500 per Sub-QSE
Competitive Retailer (CR) Application fee	9.16.2	$500 per Entity
Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder Application fee	9.16.2	$500 per Entity
Independent Market Information System Registered Entity (IMRE) fee	9.16.2	$500 per Entity
Resource Entity Application fee	9.16.2	$500 per Entity

	
Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs)	9.16.2	$500 per Entity

Counter-Party Background Check fee	9.16.2	$350 per Principal
Weatherization Inspection fees	NA


	Resource Entities with Generation Resources or ESRs and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) shall pay fees to ERCOT for costs related to weatherization inspections conducted pursuant to 16 Texas Administrative Code (TAC) § 25.55, Weather Emergency Preparedness, as provided below.     
TSPs shall pay an inspection fee of $4,500 for each of their substations or switching stations that are inspected.
Each Resource Entity to which this Section applies, other than those that own or control Generation Resources and ESRs that are federally owned, shall pay an inspection fee calculated as the Semiannual Generation Resource Inspection Costs * (Resource Entity MW Capacity/Aggregate MW Capacity).  ERCOT will perform this calculation twice per calendar year and gather the necessary MW capacity data for that six-month period on one of the last 15 Business Days at the end of the period.  Terms used in this formula are defined as follows: 
Semiannual Generation Resource Inspection Costs for purposes of this Section equals the sum of outside services costs, ERCOT internal costs, and overhead costs related to weatherization inspections, less inspection fees that will be invoiced to TSPs and Resource Entities with Generation Resources and ESRs that are federally owned, for that six-month period.  
Resource Entity MW Capacity for purposes of this Section equals the total MW capacity (using real power rating) associated with a Resource Entity with Generation Resources or ESRs.  
Aggregate MW Capacity for purposes of this Section equals the total MW capacity (using real power rating) of all the Resource Entities, other than Generation Resources and ESRs that are federally owned.  
Resource Entities with Generation Resources and ESRs that are federally owned shall pay an inspection fee of $4,500 for each of the Resources that are inspected.
ERCOT will issue Invoices semiannually in the months of January and July for the preceding six-month period to the Resource Entities and TSPs that owe inspection fees.  Payment of the fee will be due within 30 days of the Invoice date and late payments will incur 18% annual interest.  Entities that fail to pay their Invoice on time will be publicly reported in a filing with the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).  Further payment terms and instructions will be included on the Invoice.
Voluminous Copy fee	NA	$0.15 per page in excess of 50 pages
Actual Costs associated with Information Requests 	NA	ERCOT will provide an estimate to the requestor of any vendor or third-party costs ERCOT deems appropriate to fulfill the information request.  If the requestor approves the cost estimate, the requestor must pay all such costs as instructed by ERCOT before the information will be delivered to the requestor. 
ERCOT Labor Costs for Information Requests	NA	$15 per hour of ERCOT time.
If ERCOT determines that a request will involve a substantial burden on ERCOT employee or contractor time to fulfill the request, ERCOT will provide an estimate to the requestor of the anticipated labor costs.  If the requestor approves the cost estimate, the requestor must pay all such labor costs as instructed by ERCOT before the information will be delivered to the requestor.
ERCOT Training fees for courses that award Continuing Education Hours (CEHs) 	NA	$25 per North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) CEH.  
Examples of such trainings include, without limitation, the Operator Training Seminar and Black Start Training.
Cybersecurity Monitor fee for Non-ERCOT Utilities that participate in the Texas Cybersecurity Monitor Program	NA	The Cybersecurity Monitor fee amount varies from year to year.  The current fee amount is posted on ERCOT’s website here:

https://www.ercot.com/services/programs/tcmp


MIS LOG IN
Search

Electric Reliability Council of Texas
About ERCOT
Services
Committees and Groups
Market Rules
Market Information
Grid Information
Market Participants
Home Market Rules Protocols - Nodal Current Protocols - Nodal
Current Protocols - Nodal
View the most current version of ERCOT Protocols by section.  For previous versions, see the Nodal Protocols Library.

Section 1: Overview
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 81.6 KB
Section 2: Definitions and Acronyms
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 217.5 KB
Section 3: Management Activities for the ERCOT System
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 575.2 KB
Section 4: Day-Ahead Operations
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 428.1 KB
Section 5: Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment
Feb 1, 2025 - docx - 326 KB
Section 6: Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 1.6 MB
Section 7: Congestion Revenue Rights
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 233.4 KB
Section 8: Performance Monitoring
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 170.4 KB
Section 9: Settlement and Billing
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 152.8 KB
Section 10: Metering
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 86.1 KB
Section 11: Data Acquisition and Aggregation
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 72 KB
Section 12: Market Information System
Feb 1, 2025 - docx - 31.8 KB
Section 13: Transmission and Distribution Losses
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 41.5 KB
Section 14: State of Texas Renewable Energy Credit Trading Program
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 64.7 KB
Section 15: Customer Registration
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 71.4 KB
Section 16: Registration and Qualification of Market Participants
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 196.9 KB
Section 17: Market Monitoring and Data Collection
Jun 1, 2021 - docx - 31 KB
Section 18: Load Profiling
Apr 1, 2022 - docx - 53 KB
Section 19: Texas Standard Electronic Transaction
Dec 1, 2024 - docx - 43.8 KB
Section 20: Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedure and Procedure for Return of Settlement Funds
Nov 1, 2023 - docx - 42.3 KB
Section 21: Revision Request Process
Jun 1, 2023 - docx - 46.5 KB
Section 22 Attachment A: Standard Form Market Participant Agreement
Apr 1, 2022 - doc - 149.5 KB
Section 22 Attachment B: Standard Form Reliability Must-Run Agreement
Feb 1, 2022 - doc - 124 KB
Section 22 Attachment C: Amendment to Standard Form Market Participant Agreement
Apr 1, 2022 - doc - 71 KB
Section 22 Attachment D: Standard Form Black Start Agreement
Mar 1, 2023 - doc - 102 KB
Section 22 Attachment E: Notification of Suspension of Operations
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 38.4 KB
Section 22 Attachment F: Reserved
Feb 12, 2020 - doc - 40 KB
Section 22 Attachment G: Standard Form Emergency Response Service Agreement
Jun 4, 2019 - doc - 61 KB
Section 22 Attachment H: Notification of Change of Generation Resource Designation
Apr 1, 2025 - doc - 68 KB
Section 22 Attachment I: Amendment to Standard Form Black Start Agreement
Jun 4, 2019 - doc - 50 KB
Section 22 Attachment J: Annual Certification Form to Meet ERCOT Additional Minimum Participation Requirements
Apr 1, 2024 - docx - 34.4 KB
Section 22 Attachment K: Declaration of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination
Jan 26, 2023 - doc - 40.5 KB
Section 22 Attachment L: Declaration of Private Use Network Net Generation Capacity Availability
Apr 1, 2025 - doc - 84 KB
Section 22 Attachment M: Generation Resource Disclosure Regarding Bids for Black Start Service
Aug 1, 2022 - docx - 23 KB
Section 22 Attachment N: Standard Form Must-Run Alternative Agreement
Apr 1, 2025 - doc - 55.5 KB
Section 22 Attachment O: Requirements for Aggregate Load Resource Participation in the ERCOT Markets
Mar 1, 2024 - docx - 33.9 KB
Section 22 Attachment P: Methodology for Setting Maximum Shadow Prices for Network and Power Balance Constraints
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 161.1 KB
Section 23 Form A: Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Account Holder Application for Registration
May 1, 2024 - docx - 54 KB
Section 23 Form B: Load Serving Entity (LSE) Application for Registration
Dec 1, 2024 - docx - 52.7 KB
Section 23 Form C: Managed Capacity Declaration
Aug 1, 2023 - docx - 40.4 KB
Section 23 Form D: Market Participant Agency Agreement
Feb 1, 2022 - doc - 52.5 KB
Section 23 Form E: Notice of Change of Information
May 1, 2024 - docx - 47 KB
Section 23 Form F: Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Agency Agreement
Feb 1, 2022 - doc - 72 KB
Section 23 Form G: QSE Application and Service Filing for Registration Form
May 1, 2024 - docx - 48.3 KB
Section 23 Form H: QSE Acknowledgement
May 28, 2019 - doc - 71.5 KB
Section 23 Form I: Resource Entity Application for Registration
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 57.5 KB
Section 23 Form J: Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider Application for Registration
Aug 1, 2024 - docx - 50.5 KB
Section 23 Form K: Wide Area Network (WAN) Agreement
Feb 1, 2022 - doc - 82 KB
Section 23 Form L: Digital Certificate Audit Attestation
Feb 1, 2022 - doc - 72.5 KB
Section 23 Form M: Independent Market Information System Registered Entity (IMRE) Application for Registration
May 1, 2024 - docx - 44.7 KB
Section 23 Form N: Pricing Election for Settlement Only Distribution Generators and Settlement Only Transmission Generators
Feb 1, 2023 - doc - 77.5 KB
Section 23 Form O: Notice of Cybersecurity Incident
Mar 13, 2020 - docx - 34.7 KB
Section 23 Form P: Notice of Change of Banking Information
Jun 9, 2020 - docx - 32.5 KB
Section 23 Form Q: Attestation Regarding Market Participant Citizenship, Ownership, or Headquarters
May 1, 2024 - docx - 42 KB
Section 23 Form R: Interconnection Circuit Designation for Distribution Generation Resources and Distribution Energy Storage Resources
Nov 1, 2023 - docx - 41.9 KB
Section 23 Form S: Reporting and Attestation Regarding Purchase of Critical Electric Grid Equipment (CEGE) and Critical Electric Grid Services (CEGS) from a Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Designated Company or LSIPA Designated Country
May 1, 2024 - docx - 41.4 KB
Section 24: Retail Point to Point Communications
Nov 1, 2023 - docx - 37.4 KB
Section 25: Market Suspension and Restart
Feb 1, 2025 - docx - 91.8 KB
Section 26: Securitization Default Charges
Apr 1, 2025 - docx - 64.8 KB
Section 27: Securitization Uplift Charges
Oct 1, 2024 - docx - 65.7 KB
ERCOT Fee Schedule
Oct 1, 2024 - docx - 29.6 KB
About ERCOT
Services
Committees & Groups
Market Rules
Market Information
Grid Information
Market Participants
Contact Us
Glossary
Careers
Locations
Calendar
Quick Links
Ethics Point
Operations Messages
Project Status
Service Level Agreements
MIS Applications
Grid and Market Conditions
ERCOT Market Information List
Resource Integration & Ongoing Operations – Resource Services
Texas Advisory and Notification System
STAY CONNECTED
SOCIAL
     
News & Press
Mailing Lists
News & Publications
Use of this site constitutes agreement to our Terms of Use.

© 1996-2025 Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. All rights reserved.
Sitemap Privacy