o the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz.  Once deployed, a Resource telemetering a Resource Status of ONRR shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule of zero, and when recalled by ERCOT after frequency recovers above 59.98 Hz, such Resource shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule that shall be a non-zero value equal to its RRS Ancillary Service Responsibility; 
(c)	The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting for Load Resources providing RRS shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz; and
(d)	The amount of RRS provided from a Resource capable of providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) must be less than or equal to its 15-minute rated capacity.  The initiation setting of the automatic self-deployment of the Resource providing RRS as FFR must be no lower than 59.85 Hz.  A Resource providing RRS as FFR that is deployed shall not recall its capacity until system frequency is greater than 59.98 Hz.  Once deployed, a Resource telemetering a Resource Status of ONFFRRRS or ONFFRRRSL shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule of zero, and when recalled, such Resource shall telemeter an RRS Ancillary Service Schedule that shall be a non-zero value equal to its RRS Ancillary Service Responsibility.  Once recalled, a Resource providing RRS as FFR must restore its full RRS Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility within 15 minutes after cessation of deployment or as otherwise directed by ERCOT. 
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	For RRS:
(a)	The full amount of RRS using Primary Frequency Response that can be provided by an On-Line Resource is dependent upon the verified droop characteristics of the Resource.  ERCOT shall calculate and update, using the methodology described in Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment N, Procedure for Calculating RRS MW Limits for Individual Resources to Provide RRS Using Primary Frequency Response, a maximum MW amount of RRS using Primary Frequency Response for each Resource subject to verified droop performance.  The default value for any newly qualified Resource not yet evaluated per Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment N shall be 20% of its HSL.  A Private Use Network with a registered Resource may use the gross HSL for qualification and establishing a limit on the amount of RRS capacity that the Resource within the Private Use Network can provide;  
(b)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may be awarded RRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; 
(c)	The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting for Load Resources providing RRS shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz; and
(d)	The amount of RRS awarded to a Resource capable of providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) must be less than or equal to its 15-minute rated capacity.  The initiation setting of the automatic self-deployment of the Resource providing RRS as FFR must be no lower than 59.85 Hz.
(4)	For ECRS:
(a)	The full amount of ECRS provided from an On-Line Generation Resource must be less than or equal to ten times the Emergency Ramp Rate;
(b)	The full amount of ECRS provided by a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) must be less than or equal to its proven ten-minute capability as demonstrated pursuant to paragraph (16) of Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements; 
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may provide ECRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; and 
(d)	For any Load Resources controlled by under-frequency relay and providing ECRS, the initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz.  To provide ECRS, Load Resources are not required to be controlled by under-frequency relays.
[NPRR1007 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	For ECRS:
(a)	The full amount of ECRS that can be awarded to an On-Line Generation Resource or ESR must be less than or equal to ten times the Emergency Ramp Rate;
(b)	The full amount of ECRS that can be awarded to a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) must be less than or equal to its proven ten-minute capability as demonstrated pursuant to paragraph (16) of Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements; 
(c)	Generation Resources operating in the synchronous condenser fast-response mode may be awarded ECRS up to the Generation Resource’s proven 20-second response capability (which may be 100% of the HSL).  The initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.80 Hz; and 
(d)	For any Load Resources controlled by under-frequency relay and awarded ECRS, the initiation setting of the automatic under-frequency relay setting shall not be lower than 59.70 Hz.  To provide ECRS, Load Resources are not required to be controlled by under-frequency relays.
3.19	Constraint Competitiveness Tests
3.19.1	Constraint Competitiveness Test Definitions
(1)	The Constraint Competitiveness Test (CCT) checks the competitiveness of a constraint by evaluating each Market Participant’s ability to exercise market power by physical or economic withholding.  The CCT for a constrained Transmission Element evaluates whether there is sufficient competition to resolve the constraint on the import side by calculating the Element Competitiveness Index (ECI) on the import side of the constraint and by determining whether a single Entity is needed to resolve the constraint. 
(2)	The competitiveness of a constraint is tested both on a long-term basis and before each Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) execution. 
(3)	The “Available Capacity for a Resource” is defined as follows:
(a)	For Generation Resources, including Switchable Generation Resources (SWGRs), but excluding Intermittent Renewable Resources (IRRs):
(i)	Long-Term CCT - the Seasonal net max sustainable rating, as registered with ERCOT.
(ii)	SCED CCT - the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) for Resources with telemetered Resource Status as specified in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, and zero for all other Resources.
(b)	For IRRs: 
(i)	Long-Term CCT - the Seasonal net max sustainable rating, as registered with ERCOT, on the export side and zero MW on the import side.
(ii)	SCED CCT - the telemetered HSL for Resources with telemetered Resource Status as specified in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1 and zero for all other Resources.
(c)	For the Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) lines, the full import capability on the export side and zero MW on the import side for all CCTs.
[NPRR1182:  Insert paragraph (d) below upon system implementation:]
(d)	For Controllable Load Resources:
(i)	Long-Term CCT - the maximum interruptible Load MW, as registered with ERCOT. 
(ii)	SCED CCT - the telemetered Maximum Power Consumption (MPC) minus the telemetered Low Power Consumption (LPC) for Resources with a telemetered Resource Status as specified in paragraph (5)(b)(iii) of Section 3.9.1, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of OUTL.
[NPRR1182:  Insert paragraph (e) below upon system implementation of NPRR1014 and NPRR1182:]
(e)	For Energy Storage Resources (ESRs):
(i)	Long-Term CCT - the Seasonal net max sustainable rating minus the Seasonal net min sustainable rating, as registered with ERCOT.
(ii)	SCED CCT - for Resources with a telemetered Resource Status as specified in paragraph (5)(b)(iv) of Section 3.9.1, excluding Resources with a Resource Status of OUT, the minimum of:
(A)	The telemetered HSL minus the telemetered Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for the Resource; and
(B)	The telemetered max State of Charge minus the min State of Charge for the Resource divided by 15 minutes.
(4)	“Managed Capacity for an Entity” is a Resource for which a Decision Making Entity (DME) has control over how the Resource is offered or scheduled (e.g., Output Schedules), in accordance with subsection (d) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.502, Pricing Safeguards in Markets Operated by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas.
(5)	Shift Factors of all Electrical Buses are computed relative to the distributed load reference Bus. 
(a)	For voltage, stability, and thermal-limited constraints, as well as interfaces represented by thermal limits, the Shift Factors should be computed with no other contingencies removed from the electrical network.
(b)	For contingency-limited constraints, the Shift Factors used should be computed with the contingencies removed from the electrical network.
(6)	As part of the Long-Term and SCED CCT processes described below, there are several thresholds used in determining the competitive designation of a constraint and the Resources for which mitigation will be applied in SCED Step 2, as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.  These thresholds are defined as follows: 
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	As part of the Long-Term and SCED CCT processes described below, there are several thresholds used in determining the competitive designation of a constraint and the Resources, excluding Controllable Load Resources, for which mitigation will be applied in SCED Step 2, as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.  These thresholds are defined as follows:
Threshold	Definition	Value
SFP1	Minimum Shift Factor threshold for determining which Managed Capacity for an Entity to include in the ECI calculation	 2%
ECIT1	Maximum competitive threshold for ECI on the import side of a constraint for the Long-Term CCT process	2000
SFP2	Minimum Shift Factor threshold for a constraint to be eligible to be a Competitive Constraint as part of the Long-Term CCT process	2%
ECIT2	Maximum competitive threshold for ECI on the import side of a constraint for the SCED CCT process	2300
SFP3	Minimum Shift Factor threshold for a constraint to be eligible to be a Competitive Constraint as part of the SCED CCT process	2%
DMEECP	Threshold for the ECI Effective Capacity for a DME to determine if their Managed Capacity for an Entity is eligible to be mitigated as part of SCED Step 2	10%
SFP4	Minimum Shift Factor threshold below which a Resource will not have mitigation applied in SCED Step 2	2%
3.19.2	Element Competitiveness Index Calculation
(1)	To compute the ECI on the import side, first determine the “ECI Effective Capacity” available to resolve the constraint.  The ECI Effective Capacity that each Entity contributes to resolve the constraint on the import side is determined by taking, for each Managed Capacity for an Entity having negative Shift Factors with absolute values greater than the minimum of one-third of the highest absolute value of any Resource Shift Factor with a negative value and SFP1, the sum of the products of (a) the Available Capacity for a Resource and (b) the square of the Shift Factor of that Resource to the constraint.
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	To compute the ECI on the import side, first determine the “ECI Effective Capacity” available to resolve the constraint.  The ECI Effective Capacity that each Entity contributes to resolve the constraint on the import side is determined by taking, for each Managed Capacity for an Entity having Shift Factors that can help resolve the constraint by increasing power injection or reducing power withdrawal with absolute values greater than the minimum of one-third of the highest absolute value of any Resource Shift Factor meeting this criterion and SFP1, the sum of the products of (a) the Available Capacity for a Resource and (b) the square of the Shift Factor of that Resource to the constraint.
(2)	ERCOT will determine the ECI on the import of the constraint, as follows:
(a)	Determine the total ECI Effective Capacity by each DME on the import side.  
(b)	Determine the percentage of ECI Effective Capacity by each DME on the import side by taking each DME’s ECI Effective Capacity and dividing by the total ECI Effective Capacity on the import side.
(c)	The ECI on the import side is equal to the sum of the squares of the percentages of ECI Effective Capacity for each DME on the import side.
3.19.3	Long-Term Constraint Competitiveness Test
(1)	The Long-Term CCT process is executed once a year and provides a projection of Competitive Constraints for the month with the highest forecasted Demand in the following year.  
(2)	The Long-Term CCT performs analysis on a selected set of constraints.  
(3)	A constraint is classified as a Competitive Constraint for the monthly case if it meets all of the following conditions:
(a)	The ECI is less than ECIT1 on the import side of the constraint;
(b)	The constraint can be resolved by eliminating all Available Capacity for a Resource on the import side, except nuclear capacity and minimum-energy amounts of coal and lignite capacity, that is Managed Capacity for a DME during peak Load conditions; and
(c)	There are negative Shift Factors corresponding to Electrical Buses with Available Capacity for a Resource that have an absolute value greater than or equal to SFP2.
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	There are Shift Factors corresponding to Electrical Buses with Available Capacity for a Resource that can help resolve the constraint by increasing power injection or reducing power withdrawal that have an absolute value greater than or equal to SFP2.
(4)	Any constraint that is analyzed and does not meet the conditions in paragraph (3) above will be designated as a Non-Competitive Constraint for the monthly case.
(5)	ERCOT shall update and post the list of Competitive Constraints identified by the Long-Term CCT on the MIS Secure Area.  The list of Competitive Constraints shall be posted at least 30 days prior to the first of the year.
[NPRR1239:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	ERCOT shall update and post the list of Competitive Constraints identified by the Long-Term CCT on the ERCOT website.  The list of Competitive Constraints shall be posted at least 30 days prior to the first of the year.
3.19.4	Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch Constraint Competitiveness Test
(1)	The SCED CCT uses current system conditions to evaluate the competitiveness of a constraint. 
(2)	Before each SCED execution, CCT is performed for all active constraints in SCED.  The SCED CCT shall classify a constraint as competitive for the current SCED execution if the constraint meets all of the following conditions:
(a)	The ECI is less than ECIT2 on the import side;
(b)	The constraint can be resolved by eliminating all Available Capacity for a Resource on the import side, except nuclear capacity and minimum-energy amounts of coal and lignite capacity, that is Managed Capacity for a DME.  If the constraint cannot be resolved, then the DME will be marked as the pivotal player for resolving the constraint;
(c)	There are negative Shift Factors corresponding to Electrical Buses with Available Capacity for a Resource that have an absolute value greater than or equal to SFP3; and
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(c)	There are Shift Factors corresponding to Electrical Buses with Available Capacity for a Resource that can help resolve the constraint by increasing power injection or reducing power withdrawal that have an absolute value greater than or equal to SFP3; and
(d)	The constraint was not designated as non-competitive by a previous SCED CCT execution within the current Operating Hour.
(3)	Any constraint that is analyzed and is not designated as a Competitive Constraint under the conditions outlined in paragraph (2) above shall be designated as a Non-Competitive Constraint by the SCED CCT.
(4)	A constraint that is determined to be a Non-Competitive Constraint by the SCED CCT within an Operating Hour will not be re-evaluated for its competitiveness status for the remainder of that Operating Hour.  However, the SCED CCT will reevaluate the percentage of the ECI Effective Capacity on the import side for each DME and whether the DME is a pivotal player for the constraint.  SCED will re-evaluate the competitiveness of the Non-Competitive Constraint starting with the first SCED interval of the next Operating Hour if the constraint remains active in SCED.
(5)	The Independent Market Monitor (IMM) may designate any constraint as a Competitive Constraint or a Non-Competitive Constraint.  ERCOT shall provide notice describing any such designation by the IMM.  The notice shall include an effective date, justification for the constraint designation by the IMM and the duration for which the IMM designation will be applied.  Any such designation from the IMM shall override the competitiveness status determined by the SCED CCT for the dates for which the IMM override is effective.
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website whether each binding constraint was designated as a Competitive Constraint or as a Non-Competitive Constraint for each of the SCED executions during the previous Operating Hour.
(7)	Mitigation will be applied to a Resource in the SCED Step 2, as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, when all of the following conditions are met:
[NPRR1182:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(7)	Mitigation will be applied to a Resource, excluding Controllable Load Resources, in the SCED Step 2, as described in Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, when all of the following conditions are met:
(a)	A constraint has been determined to be a Non-Competitive Constraint by either the SCED CCT or the IMM;
(b)	The DME for the Resource is either identified as a pivotal player for the constraint as described in paragraph (4) above or has a percentage of ECI Effective Capacity on the import side for the constraint greater than DMEECP; and
(c)	The Resource has a Shift Factor on the import side of the constraint with an absolute value greater than SFP4;
(8)	Once mitigation has been applied to a Resource for a SCED interval, it shall remain applied for the remainder of the Operating Hour regardless of the conditions listed in paragraph (7) above.
3.20	Identification of Chronic Congestion
(1)	A constraint that has been binding in Real-Time on three or more Operating Days within a calendar month shall be considered to be experiencing chronic congestion.
3.20.1	Evaluation of Chronic Congestion
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate chronic congestion monthly and shall report the results of its evaluation to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee(s).  The report must identify the constraint(s) causing the chronic congestion.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall evaluate chronic congestion monthly and shall report on the ERCOT website the results of its evaluation to the appropriate Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) subcommittee(s).  The report must identify the constraint(s) causing the chronic congestion.
3.20.2	Topology and Model Verification
(1)	For constraints identified in the report required by Section 3.20.1, Evaluation of Chronic Congestion, ERCOT shall notify the appropriate Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)) or Resource Entity.  The TSP or Resource Entity must verify that the data in the Network Operations Model and Updated Network Model is accurate, including the Ratings of the Transmission Facility causing the binding transmission constraint.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	For constraints identified in the report required by Section 3.20.1, Evaluation of Chronic Congestion, ERCOT shall notify the appropriate Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)), Direct Current Tie Operator (DCTO), or Resource Entity.  The TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity must verify that the data in the Network Operations Model and Updated Network Model is accurate, including the Ratings of the Transmission Facility causing the binding transmission constraint.
(2)	If ERCOT determines that the Network Operations Model, the Updated Network Model, or the configuration of the Transmission Facility may be inaccurate, ERCOT shall coordinate with the owner of the Transmission Facility to determine if the Ratings should be updated, as provided by paragraph (3) of Section 3.10, Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry.
3.21	Submission of Declarations of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination
(1)	As part of its submission to ERCOT in connection with subsection (c)(3)(B) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.55, Weather Emergency Preparedness, each Resource Entity representing one or more Generation Resources subject to P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.55 that uses natural gas as its primary fuel shall submit to ERCOT the declaration in Section 22, Attachment K, Declaration of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination, stating that the Resource Entity or its Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) made a documented effort to communicate with the operator of each natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource to coordinate regarding potential impacts to the Generation Resource’s availability during the summer Peak Load Season of that year.
(2)	If a Resource Entity or its QSE knows an activity or condition related to a natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource will cause the Generation Resource’s unavailability, in whole or in part, the QSE shall, as soon as practicable, report that Outage or derate in the ERCOT Outage Scheduler in accordance with Section 3.1, Outage Coordination.  An Outage or derate reported in the ERCOT Outage Scheduler need not be disclosed in the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, nor reported under paragraph (4) below. 
(3)	If, before a Resource Entity submits the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, the Resource Entity or its QSE is notified by an operator of a natural gas pipeline directly connected to its Generation Resource of an activity or condition (e.g. maintenance, inspection, malfunction, or third-party damage) that may limit or impede normal deliveries but is uncertain whether the activity or condition during the upcoming summer Peak Load Season will cause the Generation Resource to take an Outage or derate, the Resource Entity shall disclose the natural gas pipeline activity or condition in the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, if the activity or condition materially increases the risk of Generation Resource unavailability during the summer Peak Load Season.  The Resource Entity shall use its reasonable judgment to determine whether there is a material increase in the risk of unavailability.
(4)	If, after submitting the declaration contained in Section 22, Attachment K, any previously disclosed information changes or a Resource Entity or its QSE receives new information about an activity or condition that may limit or impede normal natural gas deliveries and materially increases the risk of Generation Resource unavailability during the summer Peak Load Season, the Resource Entity shall disclose that information to ERCOT as soon as practicable.  The Resource Entity shall use reasonable judgment to determine the risk of unavailability.  When notifying ERCOT as required under this paragraph, the Resource Entity shall update the information required by paragraphs (3)(a)-(e) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination section of Section 22, Attachment K, for the affected Generation Resource by sending an email to the email address designated by ERCOT.  
(5)	In complying with its obligations in this Section 3.21, a Resource Entity or its QSE relies upon communications with and information received from operators of natural gas pipelines directly connected to the Resource Entity’s Generation Resource.  The Resource Entity or its QSE shall act in good faith to request the required information and, as soon as practicable, share with each other any information received from a natural gas pipeline operator required to be disclosed to ERCOT under Section 3.21.  The Resource Entity or its QSE need not warrant the accuracy or completeness of information received from the natural gas pipeline operator and subsequently disclosed to ERCOT.
 3.22	Subsynchronous Resonance
(1)	All series capacitors shall have automatic Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) protective relays installed and shall have remote bypass capability.  The SSR protective relays shall remain in-service when the series capacitors are in-service.
3.22.1	Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment
(1)	In the SSR vulnerability assessment, each transmission circuit is considered as a single Outage.  A common tower Outage of two circuits or the Outage of a double-circuit transmission line will be considered as two transmission Outages.
3.22.1.1 	Existing Generation Resource Assessment
(1)	ERCOT shall perform a one-time SSR vulnerability assessment on all existing Generation Resources as described in paragraphs (a) through (f) below.  For the purposes of this Section, a Generation Resource is considered an existing Generation Resource if it satisfies Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, on or before August 12, 2013.  
(a)	ERCOT shall perform a topology-check on all existing Generation Resources.  
(b)	If during the topology-check ERCOT determines that an existing Generation Resource will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall perform a frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria, and will provide the frequency scan assessment results to the affected Resource Entity.
(c)	If the frequency scan assessment described in paragraph (b) above indicates potential SSR vulnerability, the Transmission Service Provider(s) (TSP(s)) that owns the affected series capacitor(s), in coordination with the interconnecting TSP, shall perform a detailed SSR analysis in accordance with Section 3.22.2 to determine SSR vulnerability, unless ERCOT, in consultation with and in agreement with of the affected TSP(s) and the affected Resource Entity, determines the frequency scan assessment is sufficient to determine the SSR vulnerability.  
(d)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (b) and/or (c) above indicates that an existing Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor(s) shall coordinate with the interconnecting TSP, ERCOT, and the affected Resource Entity to develop and implement SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system.
(e)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (b) and/or (c) above indicates that an existing Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring.
(f)	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
3.22.1.2 	Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource Interconnection Assessment
(1)	In the security screening study for a Generation Resource Interconnection or Change Request, ERCOT will perform a topology-check and determine if the Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of fewer than 14 concurrent transmission Outages.  
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	In the security screening study for a Generation Resource/Energy Storage Resource Interconnection or Change Request, ERCOT will perform a topology-check and determine if the Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of fewer than 14 concurrent transmission Outages. 
(2)	If ERCOT identifies that a Generation Resource or ESR will become radial to a series capacitor(s) in the event of fewer than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, the interconnecting TSP shall perform an SSR study including frequency scan assessment and/or detailed SSR assessment for the Interconnecting Entity (IE) in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria, to determine SSR vulnerability.  The SSR study shall determine which system configurations create vulnerability to SSR.  Alternatively, if the IE can demonstrate to ERCOT’s and the interconnecting TSP’s satisfaction that the Generation Resource or ESR is not vulnerable to SSR, then the interconnecting TSP is not required to perform the SSR study.  If an SSR study is conducted, the interconnecting TSP shall submit it to ERCOT upon completion and shall include any SSR Mitigation plan developed by the IE that has been reviewed by the TSP.
(3)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of six or fewer concurrent transmission Outages, the IE shall develop an SSR Mitigation plan, provide it to the interconnecting TSP for review and inclusion in the TSP’s SSR study report to be approved by ERCOT, and implement the SSR Mitigation prior to Initial Synchronization.  
(a)	If the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four concurrent transmission Outages, the IE may install SSR Protection in lieu of SSR Mitigation, as required by paragraph (3) above, if:
(i)	The Generation Resource or ESR satisfied Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, between August 12, 2013 and March 20, 2015;
(ii)	The SSR Protection is approved by ERCOT; and
(iii)	The Generation Resource or ESR installs the ERCOT-approved SSR Protection prior to Initial Synchronization.
(b)	For any Generation Resource or ESR that satisfied Planning Guide Section 6.9 before September 1, 2020, if the SSR study performed in accordance with paragraph (2) above indicates that the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, the IE may elect not to develop or implement an SSR Mitigation plan, in which case ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring.  The IE shall provide ERCOT written Notice of any such election before the Generation Resource or ESR achieves Initial Synchronization, and the Generation Resource or ESR shall not be permitted to proceed to Initial Synchronization until ERCOT has implemented SSR monitoring. 
(4)	ERCOT shall respond with its comments or approval of an SSR study report, which should include any required SSR Mitigation plan, within 30 days of receipt.  ERCOT comments should be addressed as soon as practicable by the TSP, and any action taken in response to ERCOT’s comments on an SSR study report shall be subject to further ERCOT review and approval.  Upon approval of the SSR study report, ERCOT shall notify the interconnecting TSP, and the interconnecting TSP shall provide the approved SSR study report to the IE.
3.22.1.3 	Transmission Project Assessment
(1)	For any proposed Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including a topology-check and/or frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  The TSP shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the project submission to the Regional Planning Group (RPG) pursuant to Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  For Tier 4 projects that include Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall provide the SSR assessment for ERCOT’s review.  For the purposes of this Section, a Generation Resource is considered an existing Generation Resource if it satisfies Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the Transmission Facilities are proposed.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	For any proposed Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including a topology-check and/or frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  The TSP shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the project submission to the Regional Planning Group (RPG) pursuant to Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  For Tier 4 projects that include Transmission Facilities connecting to or operating at 345 kV, the TSP shall provide the SSR assessment for ERCOT’s review.  For the purposes of this Section, a Generation Resource or Energy Storage Resource (ESR) is considered an existing Generation Resource or ESR if it satisfies Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the Transmission Facilities are proposed.
(2)	If while performing the independent review of a transmission project, ERCOT determines that the transmission project may cause an existing Generation Resource or a Generation Resource satisfying Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the transmission project is proposed to become vulnerable to SSR, ERCOT shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including topology-check and frequency scan in accordance with Section 3.22.2 if such an assessment was not included in the project submission.  ERCOT shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the independent review.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	If while performing the independent review of a transmission project, ERCOT determines that the transmission project may cause an existing Generation Resource or ESR or a Generation Resource or ESR satisfying Planning Guide Section 6.9 at the time the transmission project is proposed to become vulnerable to SSR, ERCOT shall perform an SSR vulnerability assessment, including topology-check and frequency scan in accordance with Section 3.22.2 if such an assessment was not included in the project submission.  ERCOT shall include a summary of the results of this assessment in the independent review.
(3)	If the frequency scan assessment in paragraphs (1) or (2) above indicates potential SSR vulnerability in accordance with Section 3.22.2, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor(s), in coordination with the TSP proposing the Transmission Facilities, shall perform a detailed SSR assessment to confirm or refute the SSR vulnerability. 
(4)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.  
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(4)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource or ESR if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.
(5)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor(s) shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and implement SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed prior to RPG acceptance, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(5)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor(s) shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and implement SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed prior to RPG acceptance, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource or ESR.
(6)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(6)	If the SSR study confirms a Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource or ESR.
(7)	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, at its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
3.22.1.4 	Annual SSR Review
(1)	ERCOT shall perform an SSR review annually.  The annual review shall include the following elements: 
(a)	The annual review shall include a topology-check applying the system network topology that is consistent with a year 3 Steady State Working Group (SSWG) base case developed in accordance with Planning Guide Section 6.1, Steady-State Model Development.  ERCOT shall post the SSR annual topology-check report to the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area by May 31 of each year.
(b)	If ERCOT identifies that a Generation Resource will become radial to series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall perform a frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  ERCOT shall prepare a report to summarize the results of the frequency scan assessment and provide it to the Resource Entity and the affected TSP.
(i)	If the frequency scan assessment described in paragraph (b) above shows the Generation Resource has potential SSR vulnerability in the event of six or fewer concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element in coordination with the interconnecting TSP shall perform a detailed SSR assessment to confirm or refute the SSR vulnerability. 
(ii)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.  
(iii)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and install SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
(iv)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource.
(v) 	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(b)	If ERCOT identifies that a Generation Resource or ESR will become radial to series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall perform a frequency scan assessment in accordance with Section 3.22.2, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria.  ERCOT shall prepare a report to summarize the results of the frequency scan assessment and provide it to the Resource Entity and the affected TSP.
(i)	If the frequency scan assessment described in paragraph (b) above shows the Generation Resource or ESR has potential SSR vulnerability in the event of six or fewer concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP(s) that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element in coordination with the interconnecting TSP shall perform a detailed SSR assessment to confirm or refute the SSR vulnerability. 
(ii)	Past SSR assessments may be used to determine the SSR vulnerability of a Generation Resource or ESR if ERCOT, in consultation with the affected TSPs, determines the results of the past SSR assessments are still valid.  
(iii)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of four or less concurrent transmission Outages, the TSP that owns the affected series capacitor compensated Transmission Element shall coordinate with ERCOT, the affected Resource Entity, and affected TSPs to develop and install SSR Mitigation on the ERCOT transmission system. The SSR Mitigation shall be developed, if required, and implemented prior to the latter of the energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource or ESR.
(iv)	If the SSR study confirms the Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages, ERCOT shall implement SSR monitoring in accordance with Section 3.22.3, Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring, prior to the latter of energization of the transmission project or the Initial Synchronization of the Generation Resource or ESR.
(v) 	The Resource Entity shall provide sufficient model data to ERCOT within 60 days of receipt of the data request.  ERCOT, in its sole discretion, may extend the response deadline.
3.22.2	Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment Criteria
(1)	A Generation Resource is considered to be potentially vulnerable to SSR in the topology-check if a Generation Resource will become radial to a series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages.  A frequency scan assessment and/or a detailed SSR assessment shall be required to screen for system conditions causing potential SSR vulnerability.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	A Generation Resource or ESR is considered to be potentially vulnerable to SSR in the topology-check if the Generation Resource or ESR will become radial to a series capacitors(s) in the event of less than 14 concurrent transmission Outages.  A frequency scan assessment and/or a detailed SSR assessment shall be required to screen for system conditions causing potential SSR vulnerability.
(2)	In determining whether a Generation Resource is considered to be potentially vulnerable to SSR in the frequency scan assessment results, the following criteria shall be considered:
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	In determining whether a Generation Resource or ESR is considered to be potentially vulnerable to SSR in the frequency scan assessment results, the following criteria shall be considered:
(a) 	Induction Generator Effect (IGE) and Subsynchronous Control Interaction (SSCI): 
(i)	When considering the total impedance of the generator and the applicable part of the ERCOT System, if the total resistance is negative at a reactance crossover of zero Ohms from negative to positive with increasing frequency, then the generator is considered to be potentially vulnerable to IGE/SSCI; 
(b) 	Torsional Interaction: 
(i)	If the sum of the electrical damping (De) plus the mechanical damping (Dm) results in a negative value then the generator is potentially vulnerable to Torsional Interaction.  Dm at +/- 1 Hz of the modal frequency may be utilized to compare to De; and 
(c) 	Torque Amplification: 
(i)	When considering the total impedance of the generator and the ERCOT system, if a 5% or greater reactance dip, or a reactance crossover of zero Ohms from negative to positive with increasing frequency, occurs within a +/- 3 Hz complement of the modal frequency, then the generator is considered to be potentially vulnerable to Torque Amplification.  The percentage of a reactance dip is on the basis of the reactance maximum at the first inflection point of the dip where the reactance begins to decrease with increasing frequency.
(3)	The detailed SSR assessment shall include an electromagnetic transient program analysis or similar analysis.  A Generation Resource is considered to be vulnerable to SSR if any of the following criteria are met:
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(3)	The detailed SSR assessment shall include an electromagnetic transient program analysis or similar analysis.  A Generation Resource or ESR is considered to be vulnerable to SSR if any of the following criteria are met:
(a)	The SSR vulnerability results in more than 50% of fatigue life expenditure over the expected lifetime of the unit;   
(i)	If the fatigue life expenditure is not available, the highest torsional torque caused by SSR is more than 110% of the torque experienced during a transmission fault with the series capacitors bypassed;
(b)	The oscillation, if occurred, is not damped; or
(c)	The oscillation, if occurred, results in disconnection of any transmission and generation facilities.  
3.22.3 	Subsynchronous Resonance Monitoring
(1)	For purposes of SSR monitoring, a common tower Outage loss of a double-circuit transmission line consisting of two circuits sharing a tower for 0.5 miles or greater is considered as one contingency.
(2)	ERCOT’s responsibilities for SSR monitoring shall consist of the following activities if a Generation Resource is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages identified in the SSR vulnerability assessment and does not implement SSR Mitigation: 
(a)	ERCOT shall identify the combinations of Outages of Transmission Elements that may result in SSR vulnerability and provide these Transmission Elements to the affected Resource Entity and its interconnected TSP;
(b)	ERCOT shall monitor the status of these Transmission Elements identified in paragraph (a) above; 
(c)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource being three contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT will identify options for mitigation that would be implemented if an additional transmission Outage were to occur, including communications with TSPs to determine potential Outage cancellations and time estimates to reinstate Transmission Facilities;
(d)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource being two contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall take action to mitigate SSR vulnerability to the affected Generation Resource.  ERCOT shall consider the actions in the following order unless reliability considerations dictate a different order.  Actions that may be considered are:
(i)	No action if the affected Generation Resource is equipped with SSR Protection and has elected for ERCOT to forego action to mitigate SSR vulnerability; 
(ii)	Coordinate with TSPs to withdraw or restore an Outage within eight hours if feasible;
(iii)	If the actions described in (i) and (ii) above are not feasible, ERCOT shall promptly take necessary steps to identify and mitigate the impacts to the ERCOT System caused by bypassing the affected series capacitor(s) and direct the TSP(s) to bypass the affected series capacitors(s); or
(iv)	Other actions specific to the situation, including, but not limited to, Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the Resource’s Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(e)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource being one contingency away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall promptly take necessary steps to identify and mitigate the impacts to the ERCOT System caused by bypassing the affected series capacitor(s) and direct the TSP(s) to bypass the affected series capacitor(s).
(f)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource being two or less contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall notify the QSE representing the affected Generation Resource by voice communication as soon as practicable that the SSR vulnerability scenario has occurred; initiate the mitigation actions described in paragraphs (2)(d)(i) through (iv) above; and provide additional notifications to the QSE of each relevant topology change until the affected Generation Resource(s) is at least three contingencies away from SSR vulnerability.
[NPRR1246:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	ERCOT’s responsibilities for SSR monitoring shall consist of the following activities if a Generation Resource or ESR is vulnerable to SSR in the event of five or six concurrent transmission Outages identified in the SSR vulnerability assessment and does not implement SSR Mitigation: 
(a)	ERCOT shall identify the combinations of Outages of Transmission Elements that may result in SSR vulnerability and provide these Transmission Elements to the affected Resource Entity and its interconnected TSP;
(b)	ERCOT shall monitor the status of these Transmission Elements identified in paragraph (a) above; 
(c)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource or ESR being three contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT will identify options for mitigation that would be implemented if an additional transmission Outage were to occur, including communications with TSPs to determine potential Outage cancellations and time estimates to reinstate Transmission Facilities;
(d)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource or ESR being two contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall take action to mitigate SSR vulnerability to the affected Generation Resource or ESR.  ERCOT shall consider the actions in the following order unless reliability considerations dictate a different order.  Actions that may be considered are:
(i)	No action if the affected Generation Resource or ESR is equipped with SSR Protection and has elected for ERCOT to forego action to mitigate SSR vulnerability; 
(ii)	Coordinate with TSPs to withdraw or restore an Outage within eight hours if feasible;
(iii)	If the actions described in (i) and (ii) above are not feasible, ERCOT shall promptly take necessary steps to identify and mitigate the impacts to the ERCOT System caused by bypassing the affected series capacitor(s) and direct the TSP(s) to bypass the affected series capacitors(s); or
(iv)	Other actions specific to the situation, including, but not limited to, Verbal Dispatch Instruction (VDI) to the Resource’s Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE).  
(e)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource or ESR being one contingency away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall promptly take necessary steps to identify and mitigate the impacts to the ERCOT System caused by bypassing the affected series capacitor(s) and direct the TSP(s) to bypass the affected series capacitor(s).
(f)	If the occurrence of Forced and/or Planned Outages results in a Generation Resource or ESR being two or less contingencies away from SSR vulnerability, ERCOT shall notify the QSE representing the affected Generation Resource or ESR by voice communication as soon as practicable that the SSR vulnerability scenario has occurred; initiate the mitigation actions described in paragraphs (2)(d)(i) through (iv) above; and provide additional notifications to the QSE of each relevant topology change until the affected Generation Resource(s) or ESR(s) are at least three contingencies away from SSR vulnerability.
3.23	Agreements between ERCOT and other Control Area Operators
(1)	Prior to executing any agreement with another Control Area Operator concerning coordination of Switchable Generation Resources (SWGRs), Direct Current Ties (DC Ties), Block Load Transfers (BLTs), or other operational issues, ERCOT shall, to the extent possible, provide Notice to all Market Participants of such agreement and at least 14 days to comment.  Amendments or modifications to such existing agreements shall also comply with this provision.
(2)	ERCOT shall consider all comments received in response to the Notice and, to the extent time allows, discuss its acceptance or rejection of comments with the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and the ERCOT Board prior to execution.
(3)	ERCOT shall provide Notice to all Market Participants following execution of any such agreement within two Business Days.
3.24	Notification of Low Coal and Lignite Inventory Levels
(1)	Each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing a Generation Resource that uses coal or lignite as its primary fuel, except as provided in paragraph (2) below, shall notify ERCOT of the following:
(a)	If the coal or lignite inventory level available for Real-Time operations is projected to fall below 15 days of operation at the High Sustained Limit (HSL) within the next 90 days, the QSE shall notify ERCOT within three days of such a projection and provide an explanation of any disruption to the coal or lignite supply.  Notifications to ERCOT should be via email, sent to FuelSupply@ERCOT.com.
(b)	If the coal or lignite inventory level available for Real-Time operations is projected to fall below 10 days of operation at the HSL within the next 90 days, the QSE shall notify ERCOT immediately of such a projection, provide an explanation of any disruption to the coal or lignite supply, and provide daily inventory updates to ERCOT until the inventory level projection increases above 15 days.  Notifications to ERCOT should be via email, sent to FuelSupply@ERCOT.com.
(2)	The requirements of paragraph (1) above do not apply to a QSE of a Generation Resource that uses coal or lignite as its primary fuel if the Generation Resource is located within 15 miles proximity of its fuel supply or was originally designed to be located within 15 miles proximity of its fuel supply and does not have the capability of storing onsite inventory for at least 30 days of operation at the HSL.  The QSE of a Generation Resource located within 15 miles of its fuel supply or that was originally designed to be located within 15 miles proximity of its fuel supply and does not have the capability of storing onsite inventory for at least 30 days of operation at the HSL must notify ERCOT of any disruption to the coal or lignite supply operations that could impact operations of the Generation Resource within two days of such disruption and provide an explanation of such disruption.  Notifications to ERCOT should be via email, sent to FuelSupply@ERCOT.com.
3.25	Submission of Gas Supply Disruption
(1)	A Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that represents a Generation Resource that relies on natural gas as the primary fuel source shall use reasonable efforts to notify ERCOT when:
(a)	A natural gas pipeline operator and/or natural gas fuel supplier issues either:
(i)	A written notification to the QSE, or an affiliate of the Generation Resource or QSE responsible for buying natural gas for the Generation Resource, in accordance with a firm contract, indicating that a gas supply disruption on a natural gas pipeline directly connected to the Generation Resource represented by the QSE is projected to occur or is currently in progress, resulting in curtailment of natural gas deliveries to the Generation Resource; or
(ii)	A written force majeure notice to the QSE, or an affiliate of the Generation Resource or QSE responsible for buying natural gas for the Generation Resource, on a natural gas pipeline directly connected to the Generation Resource represented by the QSE indicating a gas supply disruption; and
(b)	The QSE determines that the Generation Resource’s ability to supply electricity will be significantly limited by the gas supply disruption.  Notification under paragraph (1) will include a description of the potential impact to the operation of the Generation Resource.
(2)	Notwithstanding paragraph (1) above, a QSE that represents a Generation Resource that relies on natural gas as the primary fuel source shall ensure that the High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Current Operating Plan (COP) accurately reflect the amount of output the Generation Resource can produce based on an amount of natural gas that the QSE expects it can procure after exploring all accessible and reasonable options. 
(3)	Notifications shall indicate which Generation Resources are reasonably expected to be impacted by the gas supply disruption based on the criteria above and the expected timeline of the disruption, based on available information. 
(4)	Notifications to ERCOT shall be via email, sent to fuelsupply@ercot.com.

ERCOT Nodal Protocols
Section 4:  Day-Ahead Operations
April 1, 2025


 
4	Day-Ahead Operations	4-1
4.1	Introduction	4-1
4.1.1	Day-Ahead Timeline Summary	4-1
4.1.2	Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations	4-3
4.2	ERCOT Activities in the Day-Ahead	4-5
4.2.1	Ancillary Service Plan and Ancillary Service Obligation	4-5
4.2.1.1	Ancillary Service Plan	4-5
4.2.1.2	Ancillary Service Obligation Assignment and Notice	4-6
4.2.2	Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential	4-7
4.2.3	PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential	4-10
4.2.4	Posting Secure Forecasted ERCOT System Conditions	4-13
4.2.4.1	Posting Public Forecasted ERCOT System Conditions	4-15
4.2.5	Notice of New Types of Forecasts	4-15
4.2.6	ERCOT Notice of Validation Rules for the Day-Ahead	4-15
4.3	QSE Activities and Responsibilities in the Day-Ahead	4-16
4.4	Inputs into DAM and Other Trades	4-16
4.4.1	Capacity Trades	4-16
4.4.1.1	Capacity Trade Criteria	4-17
4.4.1.2	Capacity Trade Validation	4-17
4.4.2	Energy Trades	4-18
4.4.2.1	Energy Trade Criteria	4-18
4.4.2.2	Energy Trade Validation	4-18
4.4.3	Self-Schedules	4-19
4.4.3.1	Self-Schedule Criteria	4-19
4.4.3.2	Self-Schedule Validation	4-20
4.4.4	DC Tie Schedules	4-20
4.4.4.1	DC Tie Schedule Criteria	4-24
4.4.4.2	Management of DC Tie Schedules due to Ramp Limitations	4-25
4.4.4.3	Frequency-Based Limits on DC Tie Imports or Exports	4-25
4.4.5	[RESERVED]	4-26
4.4.6	PTP Obligation Bids	4-26
4.4.6.1	PTP Obligation Bid Criteria	4-26
4.4.6.2	PTP Obligation Bid Validation	4-28
4.4.6.3	PTP Obligations with Links to an Option DAM Award Eligibility	4-29
4.4.7	Ancillary Service Supplied and Traded	4-30
4.4.7.1	Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities	4-30
4.4.7.1.1	Negative Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities	4-33
4.4.7.2	Ancillary Service Offers	4-34
4.4.7.2.1	Ancillary Service Offer Criteria	4-39
4.4.7.2.2	Ancillary Service Offer Validation	4-42
4.4.7.3	Ancillary Service Trades	4-44
4.4.7.3.1	Ancillary Service Trade Criteria	4-48
4.4.7.3.2	Ancillary Service Trade Validation	4-50
4.4.7.4	Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility	4-50
4.4.8	RMR Offers	4-52
4.4.9	Energy Offers and Bids	4-53
4.4.9.1	Three-Part Supply Offers	4-53
4.4.9.2	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer	4-54
4.4.9.2.1	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Criteria	4-54
4.4.9.2.2	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Validation	4-55
4.4.9.2.3	Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Generic Caps	4-55
4.4.9.2.4	Verifiable Startup Offer and Minimum-Energy Offer Caps	4-57
4.4.9.3	Energy Offer Curve	4-57
4.4.9.3.1	Energy Offer Curve Criteria	4-58
4.4.9.3.2	Energy Offer Curve Validation	4-60
4.4.9.3.3	Energy Offer Curve Cost Caps	4-60
4.4.9.4	Mitigated Offer Cap and Mitigated Offer Floor	4-63
4.4.9.4.1	Mitigated Offer Cap	4-63
4.4.9.4.2	Mitigated Offer Floor	4-67
4.4.9.4.3	Mitigated Offer Cap for RMR Resources	4-68
4.4.9.5	DAM Energy-Only Offer Curves	4-69
4.4.9.5.1	DAM Energy-Only Offer Curve Criteria	4-70
4.4.9.5.2	DAM Energy-Only Offer Validation	4-71
4.4.9.6	DAM Energy Bids	4-71
4.4.9.6.1	DAM Energy Bid Criteria	4-71
4.4.9.6.2	DAM Energy Bid Validation	4-72
4.4.9.7	Energy Bid/Offer Curve	4-72
4.4.9.7.1	Energy Bid/Offer Curve Criteria	4-73
4.4.9.7.2	Energy Bid/Offer Curve Validation	4-74
4.4.10	Credit Requirement for DAM Bids and Offers	4-74
4.4.11	System-Wide Offer Caps	4-87
4.4.11.1	Scarcity Pricing Mechanism	4-90
4.4.12	Determination of Ancillary Service Demand Curves for the Day-Ahead Market and Real-Time Market	4-91
4.5	DAM Execution and Results	4-93
4.5.1	DAM Clearing Process	4-93
4.5.2	Ancillary Service Insufficiency	4-100
4.5.3	Communicating DAM Results	4-101
4.6	DAM Settlement	4-106
4.6.1	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices	4-107
4.6.1.1	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Resource Nodes	4-107
4.6.1.2	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Load Zones	4-107
4.6.1.3	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices for Hubs	4-108
4.6.1.4	Day-Ahead Settlement Point Prices at the Logical Resource Node for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource	4-108
4.6.2	Day-Ahead Energy and Make-Whole Settlement	4-109
4.6.2.1	Day-Ahead Energy Payment	4-109
4.6.2.2	Day-Ahead Energy Charge	4-111
4.6.2.3	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Settlements	4-113
4.6.2.3.1	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Payment	4-114
4.6.2.3.2	Day-Ahead Make-Whole Charge	4-120
4.6.3	Settlement for PTP Obligations Bought in DAM	4-123
4.6.4	Settlement of Ancillary Services Procured in the DAM	4-126
4.6.4.1	Payments for Ancillary Services Procured in the DAM	4-126
4.6.4.1.1	Regulation Up Service Payment	4-126
4.6.4.1.2	Regulation Down Service Payment	4-127
4.6.4.1.3	Responsive Reserve Payment	4-129
4.6.4.1.4	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Payment	4-130
4.6.4.1.5	 ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Payment	4-132
4.6.4.2	Charges for Ancillary Services Procurement in the DAM	4-133
4.6.4.2.1	Regulation Up Service Charge	4-133
4.6.4.2.2	Regulation Down Service Charge	4-135
4.6.4.2.3	Responsive Reserve Charge	4-137
4.6.4.2.4	Non-Spinning Reserve Service Charge	4-139
4.6.4.2.5	 ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service Charge	4-141
4.6.5	Calculation of “Average Incremental Energy Cost” (AIEC)	4-142
 
Day-Ahead Operations
4.1	Introduction 
(1)	The Day-Ahead Market (DAM) is a daily, co-optimized market in the Day-Ahead for Ancillary Service capacity and forward financial energy and congestion transactions.  
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	The Day-Ahead Market (DAM) is a daily, co-optimized market in the Day-Ahead for forward financial energy, Ancillary Services, and congestion transactions.
(2)	Participation in the DAM is voluntary. 
(3)	DAM energy settlements use DAM Settlement Point Prices that are calculated for Resource Nodes, Load Zones, and Hubs for a one-hour Settlement Interval using the Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) from DAM.  In contrast, the Real-Time energy settlements use Real-Time Settlement Point Prices that are calculated for Resource Nodes, Load Zones, and Hubs for a 15-minute Settlement Interval.  
(4)	To the extent that the ERCOT CEO or designee determines that Market Participant activities have produced an outcome inconsistent with the efficient operation of the ERCOT administered markets as defined in subsection (c)(2) of P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.503, Oversight of Wholesale Market Participants, ERCOT may prohibit the activity by Notice for a period beginning on the date of the Notice and ending no later than 45 days after the date of the Notice.  ERCOT may issue subsequent Notices on the same activity.  The ERCOT CEO may deem any Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) designed to correct the activity or issues affecting the activity as Urgent pursuant to Section 21.5, Urgent and Board Priority Nodal Protocol Revision Requests and System Change Requests.   
4.1.1	Day-Ahead Timeline Summary
(1)	The figure below shows the major activities that occur in the Day-Ahead:  









[NPRR1008:  Replace the figure above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
 
4.1.2	Day-Ahead Process and Timing Deviations
(1)	ERCOT may temporarily revise the DAM transaction deadline or the time for communicating DAM results when necessary to ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that the DAM clearing process completes.  In such an event, ERCOT shall immediately issue an Advisory and notify all Qualified Scheduling Entities (QSEs) of the following:  
(a)	Details of the affected timing and procedures;
(b)	Details of interim requirements, if any exist;
(c)	An estimate of the period for which the interim requirements apply; and
(d)	Reasons for the temporary variation.
(2)	Subject to the principles set forth in paragraph (3) below, ERCOT may omit any procedure or take any manual action necessary to ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that the DAM clearing process completes by 1900 in the Day-Ahead.  Should ERCOT omit any such procedure or take any such manual action, ERCOT will issue a Market Notice no later than 1700 Central Prevailing Time (CPT) on the next Business Day that details the omitted procedures or manual actions taken by ERCOT and ERCOT’s explanation as to why they were necessary.  If the manual action taken by ERCOT requires ERCOT to omit bids or offers submitted by a particular QSE, ERCOT will provide notification to that QSE prior to taking the manual action, so long as providing such notice will not delay completion of the DAM beyond 1900 in the Day-Ahead.  
(3)	When omitting a procedure or taking a manual action under paragraph (2) above, ERCOT will act in accordance with the following principles:  
(a)	ERCOT will only act in cases in which it reasonably believes that intervention is necessary in order to complete DAM by 1900;
(b)	ERCOT will seek to minimize impacts to Market Participants and will only remove transactions from the DAM as a last resort; when ERCOT believes a QSE’s transactions need to be removed, either in whole or in part, in order to complete the DAM clearing process, ERCOT will prioritize the removal in reverse order based on submittal time, where the QSE’s most recently submitted transactions are prioritized before the removal of the earliest submitted transactions; however, the number of transactions removed will be at ERCOT’s discretion, subject to the principles set forth in this paragraph; 
(c)	Approval to act will be obtained from the applicable ERCOT executive or designee; and
(d)	ERCOT will not publish a DAM in which no transmission constraints are evaluated.
(4)	Should ERCOT omit a procedure or take manual action pursuant to paragraph (2) above, and a Market Participant is directly impacted by such ERCOT action or omission, the Market Participant may seek relief as specifically provided for under Section 9.14.10, Settlement for Market Participants Impacted by Omitted Procedures or Manual Actions to Resolve the DAM.  A Market Participant will only be entitled relief upon ERCOT’s determination that ERCOT’s action or omission pursuant to paragraph (2) above was the sole cause of the Market Participant’s injury, and the monetary value of the direct impact can be accurately determined by ERCOT.  Such relief is not available in the case that ERCOT aborts all or part of the Day-Ahead process.  A Market Participant may only seek relief due to ERCOT’s omission of a procedure or manual action under paragraph (2) above in the following circumstances:
(a)	ERCOT removed the Market Participant’s bid(s) or offer(s); 
(b)	ERCOT failed to award the Market Participant’s bid(s) or offer(s); or
(c)	ERCOT de-energized the Market Participant’s Resource(s) in the base case.
(5)	If ERCOT is unable to execute the Day-Ahead process prior to 1900 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT may abort all or part of the Day-Ahead process and require all schedules and trades to be submitted in the Adjustment Period.  In that event, ERCOT shall issue a Watch and notify all QSEs of the following:
(a)	Details of the affected timing and procedures;
(b)	Details of any interim requirements, including the requirements described in Section 5.2.2.2, RUC Process Timeline After an Aborted Day-Ahead Market;
(c)	An estimate of the period for which the interim requirements apply; and
[NPRR1008:  Delete items (b) and (c) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(d)	Reasons for the temporary variation.
(6)	If ERCOT is unable to operate the Adjustment Period process, then ERCOT may abort the Adjustment Period process and operate under its Operating Period procedures.
4.2	ERCOT Activities in the Day-Ahead
4.2.1	Ancillary Service Plan and Ancillary Service Obligation
4.2.1.1	Ancillary Service Plan
(1)	ERCOT shall analyze the expected Load conditions for the Operating Day and develop an Ancillary Service Plan that identifies the Ancillary Service MW necessary for each hour of the Operating Day.  The MW of each Ancillary Service required may vary from hour to hour depending on ERCOT System conditions.  ERCOT must post the Ancillary Service Plan to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.
(2)	If ERCOT determines that an Emergency Condition may exist that would adversely affect ERCOT System reliability, it may change the percentage of Load Resources that are allowed to provide ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) and Responsive Reserve (RRS) from the monthly amounts determined previously, as described in Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities, and must post any change in the percentage to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.  
(3)	ERCOT shall determine the total required amount of each Ancillary Service under Section 3.16, or use its operational judgment and experience to change the daily quantity of each required Ancillary Service.  
(4)	ERCOT shall include in the Ancillary Service Plan enough capacity to automatically control frequency with the intent to meet North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards.
(5)	Once specified by ERCOT for an hour and published on the ERCOT website, Ancillary Service quantity requirements for an Operating Day may not be decreased. 
[NPRR1008:  Insert paragraph (6) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(6)	ERCOT shall create an Ancillary Service Demand Curve (ASDC) for each Ancillary Service as described in Section 4.4.12, Determination of Ancillary Service Demand Curves.  ERCOT must post the ASDCs to the ERCOT website by 0600 of the Day-Ahead.  If ERCOT changes the Ancillary Service Plan per Section 6.4.9.1.2, Changes to Operating Day Ancillary Service Plan, the ASDCs reflecting the change to the Ancillary Service Plan will be posted to the ERCOT website.
4.2.1.2	Ancillary Service Obligation Assignment and Notice
(1)	ERCOT shall assign part of the Ancillary Service Plan quantity, by service, by hour, to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) based on its Load Serving Entity (LSE) Load Ratio Shares (LRSs) (including the shares for Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports) aggregated by hour to the QSE level.  If the resultant QSE-level share is negative, the QSE’s share will be set to zero and all other QSE shares will be adjusted on a pro rata basis such that the sum of all shares is equal to one.  The resulting Ancillary Service quantity for each QSE, by service, by hour, is called its Ancillary Service Obligation.  ERCOT shall base the QSE Ancillary Service allocation on the QSE to LSE relationships for the operating date and on the hourly LSE LRSs from the Real-Time Market (RTM) data used for Initial Settlement for the same hour and day of the week, for the most recent day for which Initial Settlement data is available, multiplied by the quantity of that service required in the Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Plan.  The Ancillary Service Obligation defined shall be adjusted based on the most current real time settlement and resettlement data for the Operating Day for which the Ancillary Service was procured. 
(2)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its Ancillary Service Obligation for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day.
(3)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area each QSE’s LRS used for the Ancillary Service Obligation calculation.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1245:  Replace Section 4.2.1.2 above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
4.2.1.2	Ancillary Service Obligation Assignment and Notice
(1)	ERCOT shall assign part of the Ancillary Service Plan quantity, or total Ancillary Service procurement quantity, if different, by service, by hour, to each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) based on its Load Serving Entity (LSE) Load Ratio Shares (LRSs) (including the shares for Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) exports) aggregated by hour to the QSE level.  If the resultant QSE-level share is negative, the QSE’s share will be set to zero and all other QSE shares will be adjusted on a pro rata basis such that the sum of all shares is equal to one.  The resulting Ancillary Service quantity for each QSE, by service, by hour, is called its Ancillary Service Obligation.  ERCOT shall base the QSE Ancillary Service allocation on the QSE to LSE relationships for the operating date and on the hourly LSE LRSs from the Real-Time Market (RTM) data used for Initial Settlement for the same hour and day of the week, for the most recent day for which Initial Settlement data is available, multiplied by the quantity of that service required in the Day-Ahead Ancillary Service Plan.  The Ancillary Service Obligation defined shall be adjusted based on the most current real time settlement and resettlement data for the Operating Day for which the Ancillary Service was procured.
(2)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its advisory Ancillary Service Obligation for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day, based on the Ancillary Service Plan, as well as that QSE’s proportional limit for any Self-Arranged Ancillary Services as set forth in Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities.
(3)	By 0600 of the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area each QSE’s LRS used for both the advisory and final Ancillary Service Obligation calculations. 
(4)	After DAM has published, ERCOT shall notify each QSE of its final Ancillary Service Obligation based on the total DAM Ancillary Service procurement quantity, comprised of DAM Ancillary Service awards and Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities for each service and for each hour of the Operating Day.
4.2.2	Wind-Powered Generation Resource Production Potential
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of wind production potential for each Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR).  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour Wind Power Forecast (IHWPF) by wind region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide wind production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for Generation To Be Dispatched (GTBD) calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT Wind Power Forecast (TEWPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all wind-power in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  Each Generation Entity that owns a WGR shall install and telemeter to ERCOT the site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STWPF and TEWPF forecasts.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of WGR meteorological information telemetry. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of wind production potential for each Wind-powered Generation Resource (WGR) and for each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource.  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour Wind Power Forecast (IHWPF) by wind region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide wind production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for Generation To Be Dispatched (GTBD) calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT Wind Power Forecast (TEWPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all wind-power in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  A Resource Entity with a WGR or DC-Coupled Resource that has a wind generation component shall install equipment to enable telemetry of site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STWPF and TEWPF forecasts, and the Resource Entity’s QSE shall telemeter such information and Resource status information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of meteorological information telemetry for WGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a wind generation component.
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEWPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT WGR production is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STWPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEWPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each WGR such that the sum of the individual STWPF forecasts equal the TEWPF forecast.  The updated STWPF forecasts for each hour for each WGR are to be used as input into each Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEWPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT production of WGRs and the wind generation components of all DC-Coupled Resources is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STWPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEWPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource such that the sum of the individual STWPF forecasts equal the TEWPF forecast.  The updated STWPF forecasts for each hour for each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource are to be used as input into each Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment.
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by WGR owners including WGR availability, meteorological information, and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the Wind-powered Generation Resource Production Potential (WGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by Resource Entities and QSEs representing WGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with wind generation components, including Resource availability, meteorological information, and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA).
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STWPF and WGRPP forecasts for each WGR to the QSE that represents that WGR and shall post each STWPF and WGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STWPF and WGRPP forecasts for each WGR and each wind generation component of a DC-Coupled Resource to the QSE that represents that WGR or DC-Coupled Resource and shall post each STWPF and WGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
(5)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis the hourly actual wind power production, STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate Current Operating Plan (COP) High Sustained Limits (HSLs) for On-Line WGRs for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide and regional STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line WGRs will also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT shall retain the STWPF and WGRPP for each hour.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis the hourly actual wind power production, STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate Current Operating Plan (COP) High Sustained Limits (HSLs) for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide and regional STWPF, WGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources will also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT shall retain the STWPF and WGRPP for each hour.
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STWPF and WGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line WGRs for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STWPF and WGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line WGRs and the wind generation components of DC-Coupled Resources for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
(7)	Every five minutes, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide and regional basis, five-minute actual wind power production for a rolling historical 60-minute period.
4.2.3	PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of PhotoVoltaic production potential for each PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR).  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (IHPPF) by PhotoVoltaic region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide PhotoVoltaic production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for GTBD calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (TEPPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  Each Generation Entity that owns a PVGR shall install and telemeter to ERCOT the site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STPPF and TEPPF forecasts.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of PVGR meteorological information telemetry. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall produce and update hourly a Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF) that provides a rolling 168-hour hourly forecast of PhotoVoltaic (PV) production potential for each PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource (PVGR) and for the PV component of each DC-Coupled Resource.  ERCOT shall produce and post to the ERCOT website every five minutes an Intra-Hour PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (IHPPF) by PhotoVoltaic region that provides a forecast of ERCOT-wide PhotoVoltaic production potential for each five-minute interval over the next two hours from each forecast model.  The posting shall indicate which forecast model was being used by ERCOT for GTBD calculation purposes.  ERCOT shall produce and update an hourly Total ERCOT PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (TEPPF) providing a probability distribution of the hourly production potential from all PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources and the PV components of all DC-Coupled Resources in ERCOT for each of the next 168 hours.  A Resource Entity with a PVGR or DC-Coupled Resource that has a PV component shall install equipment to enable telemetry of site-specific meteorological information that ERCOT determines is necessary to produce the STPPF and TEPPF forecasts, and the Resource Entity’s QSE shall telemeter such information and Resource status information to ERCOT.  ERCOT shall establish procedures specifying the accuracy requirements of meteorological information telemetry for PVGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a PV component. 
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEPPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT PVGR production is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STPPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEPPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each PVGR such that the sum of the individual STPPF forecasts equal the TEPPF forecast.  The updated STPPF forecasts for each hour for each PVGR are to be used as input into each RUC process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment. 
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	ERCOT shall use the probabilistic TEPPF and select the forecast that the actual total ERCOT production of PVGRs and the PV components of DC-Coupled Resources is expected to exceed 50% of the time (50% probability of exceedance forecast).  To produce the STPPF, ERCOT will allocate the TEPPF 50% probability of exceedance forecast to each PVGR and each PV component of a DC-Coupled Resource such that the sum of the individual STPPF forecasts equal the TEPPF forecast.  The updated STPPF forecasts for each hour for each PVGR and each PV component of a DC-Coupled Resource are to be used as input into each RUC process as per Section 5, Transmission Security Analysis and Reliability Unit Commitment.
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by PVGR owners including PVGR availability, meteorological information, and SCADA.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	ERCOT shall produce the PhotoVoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential (PVGRPP) forecasts using the information provided by owners of PVGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a PV component including Resource availability, meteorological information, and SCADA.
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STPPF and PVGRPP forecasts for each PVGR to the QSE that represents that PVGR and shall post each STPPF and PVGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	Each hour, ERCOT shall provide, through the Messaging System, the STPPF and PVGRPP forecasts for each PVGR and each DC-Coupled Resource with a PV component to the QSE that represents that PVGR or DC-Coupled Resource and shall post each STPPF and PVGRPP forecast on the MIS Certified Area.
(5)	After the aggregated ERCOT PVGR capacity reaches one GW and the maximum PVGR capacity ratio of a single PVGR over the total ERCOT installed PVGR capacity is at or below 60%, each hour ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide basis the hourly actual PhotoVoltaic (PV) power production, STPPF, PVGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line PVGRs for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide STPPF, PVGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line PVGRs will also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT shall retain the STPPF and PVGRPP for each hour. However, ERCOT shall post this information no later than June 1, 2016.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(5)	Each hour ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide basis the hourly actual PhotoVoltaic (PV) power production, STPPF, PVGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line PVGRs and PV components of DC-Coupled Resources for a rolling historical 48-hour period.  The system-wide STPPF, PVGRPP, and aggregate COP HSLs for On-Line PVGRs and PV components of DC-Coupled Resources shall also be posted for the rolling future 168-hour period.
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STPPF and PVGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line PVGRs for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	Each hour, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website the hourly system-wide and regional STPPF and PVGRPP values produced by each forecast model for On-Line PVGRs and DC-Coupled Resources with a PV component for the rolling historical 48-hour period and the rolling future 168-hour period.  ERCOT’s posting shall also indicate which forecast model it is using for each region to populate COPs.
(7)	After the aggregated ERCOT PVGR capacity reaches one GW and the maximum PVGR capacity ratio of a single PVGR over the total ERCOT installed PVGR capacity is at or below 60%, every five minutes, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide basis, five-minute actual PV power production for a rolling historical 60-minute period. However, ERCOT shall post this information no later than June 1, 2016.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(7)	Every five minutes, ERCOT shall post to the ERCOT website, on a system-wide basis, five-minute actual PV power production from all PVGRs and PV components of DC-Coupled Resources for a rolling historical 60-minute period.
4.2.4	Posting Secure Forecasted ERCOT System Conditions
(1)	No later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area, and make available for download, the following information for the Operating Day:
(a)	For each update of the Network Operations Model, the Redacted Network Operations Model in the Common Information Model (CIM) format and the companion version of Network Operations Model (unredacted) will be posted to the MIS Certified Area for Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) as described in paragraph (9) of Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities; 
(b)	For each update of the Network Operations Model, differences between the posted Redacted Network Operations Model and the previous Redacted Network Operations Model as described in paragraph (4) of Section 3.10.4;
(c)	Load Profiles for non-Interval Data Recorder (IDR) metered Customers; 
(d)	Distribution Loss Factors (DLFs) and forecasted ERCOT-wide Transmission Loss Factors (TLFs), as described in Section 13.3, Distribution Losses, and Section 13.2, Transmission Losses, for each Settlement Interval of the Operating Day;
(e)	A current list of Electrically Similar Settlement Points produced from the 0600 Day-Ahead Market (DAM) study that support that creation of Power System Simulator for Engineering (PSS/E) files;
(f)	A daily version of the Network Operations Model in a PSS/E format that has been exported from the Market Management System prior to 0600 representing the next Operating Day in hourly files, inclusive of:
(i)	Outages from the Outage Scheduler implemented in the hourly PSS/E files; 
(ii)	All bus shunt MW and MVAr set to zero;
(iii)	All Load MW and MVAr set to zero;
(iv)	All generation MW and MVAr set to zero; and
(v)	Slack bus used in the DAM shall be represented at the same bus in each case; and
(g)	A daily version of supporting files for the PSS/E files supporting the Network Operations Model that has been exported from the Market Management System prior to 0600, inclusive of:
(i)	Contingency definition corresponding to each hourly PSS/E file;
(ii)	Generator mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E file; 
(iii)	Mapping of all Resource Nodes and DC Tie Load Zone to the hourly PSS/E file including Private Use Network Settlement Points.  This file of hourly data will also include the base case energization status of Resource Node and DC Tie Load Zone reflecting Settlement Points available for DAM clearing process;
(iv)	Load mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E case necessary to model all Load Zone energy transactions in the DAM; 
(v)	Transmission line mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E files;
(vi)	Transformer mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E files; and 
(vii)	Hub mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E case necessary to model all Hub energy transactions in the DAM. 
[NPRR1188:  Insert paragraph (viii) below upon system implementation:]
(viii)	Controllable Load Resource (CLR) mapping data corresponding to each hourly PSS/E file.
4.2.4.1	Posting Public Forecasted ERCOT System Conditions
(1)	No later than 0600 in the Day-Ahead, ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website, and make available for download, the following information for the Operating Day:
(a)	Weather assumptions used by ERCOT to forecast ERCOT System conditions and used in the Dynamic Rating Processor;  
(b)	ERCOT System, Weather Zone, Load Zone, and Study Area Load forecasts for the next seven days, by hour, and a message on update indicating any changes to the forecasts by means of the Messaging System;
(c)	A current list of all Settlement Points that may be used for market processes and transactions;  
(d)	A mapping of Settlement Points to Electrical Buses in the Network Operations Model;
(e)	A list of transmission constraints that have a high probability of binding in the Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) or DAM; and
(f)	A mapping of any Electrical Bus to another Electrical Bus for purposes of heuristic pricing as described in paragraph (8) of Section 4.5.1, DAM Clearing Process, and Section 6.6.1, Real-Time Settlement Point Prices.
4.2.5	Notice of New Types of Forecasts
(1)	Before using any new type of forecast for any operational purpose, ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice stating ERCOT’s intention to use that new type of forecast and shall sponsor a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) to propose requirements for posting data for the new type of forecast.
4.2.6	ERCOT Notice of Validation Rules for the Day-Ahead
(1)	ERCOT shall provide each QSE with the information necessary to pre-validate its data for DAM, including publishing validation rules for offers, bids, and trades.
4.3	QSE Activities and Responsibilities in the Day-Ahead
(1)	During the Day-Ahead, a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE): 
(a)	Must submit its Current Operating Plan (COP) and update its COP as required in Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP); and
(b)	May submit Three-Part Supply Offers, Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Energy-Only Offers, DAM Energy Bids, Energy Trades, Self-Schedules, Capacity Trades, Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules, Ancillary Service Offers, Ancillary Service Trades, Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities, and Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bids as specified in this Section.
[NPRR1008 and NPRR1014:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (b) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1008; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014:]
(b)	May submit Three-Part Supply Offers, Day-Ahead Market (DAM) Energy-Only Offers, DAM Energy Bids, Energy Bid/Offer Curves, Energy Trades, Self-Schedules, Capacity Trades, Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules, Resource-Specific Ancillary Service Offers, DAM Ancillary Service Only Offers, Ancillary Service Trades, Self-Arranged Ancillary Service Quantities, and Point-to-Point (PTP) Obligation bids as specified in this Section.
(2)	By 0600 in the Day-Ahead, each QSE representing Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units, Firm Fuel Supply Service (FFSS) Resources (FFSSRs), or Black Start Resources shall submit its Availability Plan to ERCOT indicating availability of RMR Units, FFSSRs, and Black Start Resources for the Operating Day and any other information that ERCOT may need to evaluate use of the units. 
4.4	Inputs into DAM and Other Trades
4.4.1	Capacity Trades 
(1)	A Capacity Trade is the information for a Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE)-to-QSE transaction that transfers financial responsibility for capacity between a buyer and a seller. 
(2)	A Capacity Trade for hours in the Operating Day that is reported to ERCOT before 1430 in the Day-Ahead creates:
(a)	A capacity supply in the Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) process for the buyer; and
(b)	A capacity obligation in the DRUC process for the seller. 
(3)	A Capacity Trade submitted at or after 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the Operating Day creates a capacity supply or obligation in any Hourly Reliability Unit Commitment (HRUC) processes executed after the Capacity Trade is reported to ERCOT.  Capacity Trades submitted after the DRUC snapshot are considered in the Adjustment Period snapshot.
(4)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify each QSE through the Messaging System of any of its Capacity Trades that are invalid Capacity Trades.  The QSE may correct and resubmit any invalid Capacity Trade within the appropriate market timeline.
4.4.1.1	Capacity Trade Criteria
(1)	A Capacity Trade must be submitted by a QSE and must include the following:
(a)	The buying QSE;
(b)	The selling QSE;
(c)	The quantity in MW; and
(d)	The first hour and last hour of the trade.   
(2)	A Capacity Trade must be confirmed by both the buyer and seller to be considered valid.
4.4.1.2	Capacity Trade Validation
(1)	A validated Capacity Trade is a Capacity Trade that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.1.1, Capacity Trade Criteria.  Only one confirmed Capacity Trade is allowed for the same buying and selling QSEs for each hour.
(2)	When a Capacity Trade is reported to ERCOT, ERCOT shall notify both the buying and selling QSEs by using the Messaging System, if available, and on the Market Information System (MIS) Certified Area.  ERCOT shall also post to the MIS Certified Area any unconfirmed Capacity Trades for QSEs on an hourly basis for all remaining hours of the current Operating Day and all hours of the next Operating Day. 
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Capacity Trades and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE named in a Capacity Trade to view confirmed and unconfirmed Capacity Trades. 
(4)	The QSE that first reports the Capacity Trade to ERCOT is deemed to have confirmed the Capacity Trade unless it subsequently affirmatively rejects it.  The QSE that first reports a Capacity Trade may reject, edit, or delete a Capacity Trade that its counterpart has not confirmed.  The counterpart is deemed to have confirmed the Capacity Trade when it submits to ERCOT an identical Capacity Trade.  After both the buyer and seller have confirmed a Capacity Trade, either party may reject it at any time, but the rejection is effective only for any ERCOT Settlement process for which the deadline for reporting Capacity Trades has not yet passed.
4.4.2	Energy Trades
(1)	An Energy Trade is the information for a QSE-to-QSE transaction that transfers financial responsibility for energy at a Settlement Point between a buyer and a seller. 
(2)	An Energy Trade for hours in the Operating Day that is reported to ERCOT before 1430 in the Day-Ahead creates a capacity supply or obligation in the DRUC process.  Energy Trades submitted after 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the Operating Day create a capacity supply or obligation in any HRUC processes executed after the Energy Trade is reported to ERCOT.  Energy Trades submitted after the DRUC snapshot are considered in the Adjustment Period.
(3)	An Energy Trade may be submitted for any Settlement Interval within an Operating Day before 1430 of the following day.  
(4)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify each QSE through the Messaging System of any of its Energy Trades that are invalid Energy Trades.  The QSE may correct and resubmit any invalid Energy Trade within the appropriate market timeline. 
4.4.2.1	Energy Trade Criteria
(1)	Each Energy Trade must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The buying QSE;
(b)	The selling QSE;
(c)	The quantity of MW for each 15-minute Settlement Interval of the trade; 
(d)	The first and last 15-minute Settlement Intervals of the trade; and
(e)	The Settlement Point of the trade.
(2)	An Energy Trade must be confirmed by both the buyer and seller to be considered valid.
4.4.2.2	Energy Trade Validation
(1)	A validated Energy Trade is an Energy Trade that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.2.1, Energy Trade Criteria.  Only one confirmed Energy Trade is allowed for the same buying and selling QSEs at the same Settlement Point for each 15-minute Settlement Interval.
(2)	When an Energy Trade is reported to ERCOT, ERCOT shall notify both the buying and selling QSEs by using the Messaging System, if available, and the MIS Certified Area.  ERCOT shall also post to the MIS Certified Area any unconfirmed Energy Trades for QSEs on an hourly basis for all remaining hours of the current Operating Day and all hours of the next Operating Day.  
(3)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Energy Trades and continuously display on the MIS Certified Area information that allows any QSE named in an Energy Trade to view confirmed and unconfirmed Energy Trades.  
(4)	The QSE that first reports the Energy Trade to ERCOT is considered to have confirmed the Energy Trade unless it subsequently affirmatively rejects it.  The QSE that first reports an Energy Trade may reject, edit, or delete an Energy Trade that its counterpart has not confirmed.  The counterpart is deemed to have confirmed the Energy Trade when it submits an identical Energy Trade.  After both the buyer and seller have confirmed an Energy Trade, either party may reject it at any time, but the rejection is effective only for any ERCOT process for which the deadline for reporting Energy Trades has not yet passed.
4.4.3	Self-Schedules
(1)	A Self-Schedule is the information that a QSE submits for Real-Time Settlement that specifies the amount of the QSE’s energy supply at a specified source Settlement Point to be used to meet the QSE’s energy obligation at a specified sink Settlement Point.
(2)	A Self-Schedule may be submitted for any Settlement Interval before the end of the Adjustment Period for that Settlement Interval.
(3)	As soon as practicable, ERCOT shall notify the QSE through the Messaging System of any of its Self-Schedules that are invalid Self-Schedules.  The QSE may correct and resubmit any invalid Self-Schedule within the appropriate market timeline.
4.4.3.1	Self-Schedule Criteria
(1)	Each Self-Schedule must be reported by a QSE and must include the following information:
(a)	The name of the QSE;
(b)	The quantity of MW for each 15-minute Settlement Interval of the schedule;
(c)	The first and last 15-minute Settlement Intervals of the schedule;
(d)	The source Settlement Point of the schedule; and
(e)	The sink Settlement Point of the schedule.
4.4.3.2	Self-Schedule Validation
(1)	A validated Self-Schedule is a Self-Schedule that ERCOT has determined meets the criteria listed in Section 4.4.3.1, Self-Schedule Criteria.
(2)	ERCOT shall continuously validate Self-Schedules and continuously display on the MIS Secure Area information that allows the QSE named in a Self-Schedule to view validated Self-Schedules.
4.4.4	DC Tie Schedules
(1)	All schedules between the ERCOT Control Area and a non-ERCOT Control Area(s) over Direct Current Tie(s) (DC Ties(s)), must be implemented under these Protocols, any applicable North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) Practice Standards, and operating agreements between ERCOT and the Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE).  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	All Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) Schedules between the ERCOT Control Area and a non-ERCOT Control Area(s) must be implemented in accordance with these Protocols, any applicable North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) Practice Standards, and operating agreements between ERCOT and the appropriate operating authority for the non-ERCOT Control Area.
(2)	A DC Tie Schedule for hours in the Operating Day corresponding to an Electronic Tag (e-Tag) that is reported to ERCOT before 1430 in the Day-Ahead creates a capacity supply for the equivalent Resource or an obligation for the equivalent Load of the DC Tie in the DRUC process.  DC Tie Schedules corresponding to e-Tags approved after 1430 in the Day-Ahead for the Operating Day create a capacity supply or obligation in any applicable HRUC processes.  DC Tie Schedules corresponding to e-Tags approved after the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) snapshot are considered in the Adjustment Period snapshot in accordance with the market timeline.
(3)	A QSE that is an importer into ERCOT through a DC Tie in a Settlement Interval under an approved e-Tag must be treated as a Resource at that DC Tie Settlement Point for that Settlement Interval. 
(4)	A QSE that is an exporter from ERCOT through a DC Tie in a Settlement Interval under an approved e-Tag must be treated as a Load at the DC Tie Settlement Point for that Settlement Interval and is responsible for allocated Transmission Losses, Unaccounted for Energy (UFE), System Administration Fee, and any other applicable ERCOT fees.
(5)	ERCOT shall approve any e-Tag that does not exceed the available physical capacity of the DC Tie and any limits supplied the non-ERCOT Control Area for the time period for which the e-Tag is requested unless a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect for the particular DC Tie for which the e-Tag request is made.  While a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect, ERCOT will deny any additional e-Tag requests that would exacerbate the transmission security violations that led to that DC Tie Curtailment Notice.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, ERCOT shall deny or curtail any e-Tag over any of the DC Ties if necessary to avoid causing any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the Federal Power Act (FPA), including ERCOT, to become such a public utility.  If ERCOT determines that it is necessary to deny or curtail e-Tags in order to prevent any Entity from becoming a “public utility,” it shall provide notice of that determination by posting an operations message to the ERCOT website and issuing a Market Notice.
[NPRR999:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon project implementation of the Intra-Hour Variability (iCAT) Tool:]
(5)	ERCOT shall approve any e-Tag that does not exceed the available physical capacity of the DC Tie, system ramping capability, and any limits supplied by the non-ERCOT Control Area for the time period for which the e-Tag is requested unless a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect for the particular DC Tie for which the e-Tag request is made; otherwise, ERCOT shall deny the e-Tag.  While a DC Tie Curtailment Notice is in effect, ERCOT will deny any additional e-Tag requests that would exacerbate the transmission security violations that led to that DC Tie Curtailment Notice.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, ERCOT shall deny or curtail any e-Tag over any of the DC Ties if necessary to avoid causing any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the Federal Power Act (FPA), including ERCOT, to become such a public utility.  If ERCOT determines that it is necessary to deny or curtail e-Tags in order to prevent any Entity from becoming a “public utility,” it shall provide notice of that determination by posting an operations message to the ERCOT website and issuing a Market Notice.
(6)	ERCOT shall perform schedule confirmation with the applicable non-ERCOT Control Area(s) and shall coordinate the approval process for the e-Tags for the ERCOT Control Area.  An e-Tag for a schedule across a DC Tie is considered approved if:
(a)	All Control Areas and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) with approval rights approve the e-Tag (active approval); or
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(a)	All Control Areas and Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs) with approval rights approve the e-Tag (active approval); or
(b)	No Entity with approval rights over the e-Tag has denied it, and the approval time window has ended (passive approval).
(7)	Using the DC Tie Schedule information corresponding to e-Tags submitted by QSEs, ERCOT shall update and maintain a Current Operating Plan (COP) for each DC Tie for which the aggregated DC Tie Schedules for that tie show a net export out of ERCOT for the applicable interval.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie indicates an export, ERCOT shall treat the DC Tie as an Off-Line Resource and set the High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for that DC Tie Resource to zero.  ERCOT shall monitor the associated Resource Status telemetry during the Operating Period.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie shows a net import, the Resource HSL, High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) and LSL must be set appropriately, considering the resulting net import. 
[NPRR1008:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(7)	Using the DC Tie Schedule information corresponding to e-Tags submitted by QSEs, ERCOT shall update and maintain a Current Operating Plan (COP) for each DC Tie for which the aggregated DC Tie Schedules for that tie show a net export out of ERCOT for the applicable interval.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie indicates an export, ERCOT shall treat the DC Tie as an Off-Line Resource and set the High Sustained Limit (HSL) and Low Sustained Limit (LSL) for that DC Tie Resource to zero.  ERCOT shall monitor the associated Resource Status telemetry during the Operating Period.  When the net energy schedule for a DC Tie shows a net import, the Resource HSL and LSL must be set appropriately, considering the resulting net import.
(8)	A QSE exporting from ERCOT and/or importing to ERCOT through a DC Tie shall:
(a)	Secure and maintain an e-Tag service to submit e-Tags and monitor e-Tag status according to NERC requirements;
(b)	Submit e-Tags for all proposed transactions; and
(c)	Implement backup procedures in case of e-Tag service failure.  
(9)	ERCOT shall post a notice to the MIS Certified Area when a confirmed e-Tag is downloaded, cancelled, or curtailed by ERCOT’s systems.
(10)	ERCOT shall use the DC Tie e-Tag MW amounts for Settlement.  The DC Tie operator shall communicate deratings of the DC Ties to ERCOT and other affected regions and all parties shall agree to any adjusted or curtailed e-Tag amounts. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (10) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(10)	ERCOT shall use the DC Tie e-Tag MW amounts for Settlement.  The DCTO shall communicate deratings of the DC Ties to ERCOT and other affected regions and all parties shall agree to any adjusted or curtailed e-Tag amounts. 
(11)	DC Tie Load is considered as Load for daily and hourly reliability studies, and settled as Adjusted Metered Load (AML).  DC Tie Load is curtailed prior to other Load on the ERCOT System as described below, and during Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) events as set forth in Section 6.5.9.4.2, EEA Levels.  
(12)	DC Tie Load shall neither be curtailed by ERCOT during the Adjustment Period, nor for more than one hour at a time, except for the purpose of maintaining reliability, or as indicated in paragraphs (13), (14), (15), and (16) below. 
(13)	If a system operator in a non-ERCOT Control Area requests curtailment of a DC Tie Schedule due to an actual or anticipated emergency in its Control Area, ERCOT may curtail the DC Tie Schedule.  If the DC Tie Schedule is curtailed, ERCOT shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.
(14)	If a DC Tie experiences an Outage, ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules that are, or that are expected to be, affected by the Outage based on system conditions and expected restoration time of the Outage.  ERCOT shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.  Updated DC Tie limits shall be posted as required in paragraph (1) of Section 3.10.7.7, DC Tie Limits.
(15)	If market-based congestion management techniques embedded in Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) as specified in these Protocols will not be adequate to resolve one or more transmission security violations that would be fully or partially resolved by the curtailment of DC Tie Load and, in ERCOT’s judgment, no approved Constraint Management Plan (CMP) is adequate to resolve those violations, ERCOT may instruct Resources to change output and, if still necessary, curtail DC Tie Load to maintain reliability and shall post a DC Tie Curtailment Notice to the ERCOT website as soon as practicable.  The quantity of DC Tie Load to be curtailed shall be the minimum required to resolve the constraint(s) after the other remediation actions described above have been taken.
(16)	ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules as necessary to ensure that any Entity in the ERCOT Region that is not a “public utility” as defined in the FPA, including ERCOT, does not become such a public utility.
[NPRR1034:  Insert paragraph (17) below upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross Transmission LLC (Southern Cross) provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities; and renumber accordingly:]
(17)	ERCOT may curtail DC Tie Schedules on a DC Tie on a last-in-first-out basis when ERCOT determines that one or more DC Tie Schedules on that DC Tie would exceed a limit established pursuant to paragraph (1) of Section 4.4.4.4, Frequency-Based Limits on DC Tie Imports or Exports.
(17)	Market Participants shall not engage in DC Tie export transactions that are reasonably expected to be uneconomic in consideration of all costs and revenues associated with the transaction, excluding Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auction Revenue Distribution (CARD) and CRR Balancing Account (CRRBA) allocations.
[NPRR1030:  Delete paragraph (17) above upon system implementation.]
4.4.4.1	DC Tie Schedule Criteria
(1)	Each DC Tie Schedule must correspond to an implemented e-Tag and include the following information: 
(a)	The QSE ERCOT identifier or non-ERCOT Control Area buying the energy;
(b)	The QSE ERCOT identifier or non-ERCOT Control Area selling the energy;
(c)	The DC Tie Settlement Point name;
(d)	The quantity in MW for each 15-minute Settlement Interval of the sch