meters that may be modified, with documented reason for change, by the QSE for immediate use upon ERCOT validation, which may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2, include the following for each of its Controllable Load Resources, including Aggregate Load Resources (ALRs):
(a)	Normal Ramp Rate curve;
(b)	Emergency Ramp Rate curve;
(c)	Maximum deployment time; and 
(d)	Maximum weekly energy.
(3)	Resource Parameters submitted by a Resource Entity must also include, for each of its ALRs, mapping between the ALR and the individually metered Loads, by Electric Service Identifier (ESI ID) or, in the case of a Non-Opt-In Entity (NOIE), equivalent unique meter identifier, comprising the ALR.
3.7.1.3	 Energy Storage Resource Parameters
(1)	Resource Parameters for an ESR that may be modified, with documented reason for change, by the QSE for immediate use upon ERCOT validation include:
(a)	Normal Ramp Rate curve; and
(b)	Emergency Ramp Rate curve.
[NPRR1204:  Insert paragraph (c) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(c)	Round Trip Efficiency.
3.7.2	Changes in Resource Parameters with Operational Impacts
(1)	The QSE representing each Resource shall have the responsibility to submit changes to Resource Parameters for those Resource Parameters related to the Current Operating Plan (COP), as described in Section 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP), and to Real-Time operations as described in Section 6, Adjustment Period and Real-Time Operations.  If the QSE cancels a Resource Parameter submission, ERCOT will use as a default the Resource Parameter that is registered in the Network Operations Model.
3.7.3	Resource Parameter Validation
(1)	ERCOT shall verify that changes to Resource Parameters submitted by the QSE representing the Resource comply with the Resource Registration Glossary.  If a Resource Parameter is determined to be invalid, then ERCOT shall reject it and provide written notice to the QSE representing the Resource of the reason for the rejection.
3.8	Special Considerations
3.8.1	Split Generation Resources
(1)	When a generation meter is split, as provided for in Section 10.3.2.1, Generation Resource Meter Splitting, two or more independent Generation Resources must be created in the ERCOT Network Operations Model according to Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads, to function in all respects as Split Generation Resources in ERCOT System operation.  A Combined Cycle Train may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.  A Distribution Generation Resource (DGR) or Distribution Energy Storage Resource (DESR) may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.  An Energy Storage Resource (ESR) may not be registered in ERCOT as a Split Generation Resource.
(2)	Each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) representing a Split Generation Resource shall collect and shall submit to ERCOT the Resource Parameters defined under Section 3.7, Resource Parameters, for the Split Generation Resource it represents.  The parameters provided must be consistent with the parameters submitted by each other QSE that represents a Split Generation Resource from the same Generation Resource.  The parameters submitted for each Split Generation Resource for limits and ramp rates must be according to the capability of the Split Generation Resource represented by the QSE.  Startup and shutdown times, time to change status and number of starts must be identical for all the Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource submitted by each QSE.  ERCOT shall review data submitted by each QSE representing Split Generation Resources for consistency and notify each QSE of any errors.
(3)	Each Split Generation Resource may be represented by a different QSE.  The Resource Entities that own or control the Split Generation Resources from a single Generation Resource must designate a Master QSE.  Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource must comply in all respects to the requirements of a Generation Resource specified under these Protocols. 
(4)	The Master QSE shall: 
(a)	Serve as the Single Point of Contact for the Generation Resource, as required by Section 3.1.4.1, Single Point of Contact; 
(b)	Provide real-time telemetry for the total Generation Resource, as specified in Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements; and 
(c)	Receive Verbal Dispatch Instructions (VDIs) from ERCOT, as specified in Section 6.5.7.8, Dispatch Procedures.  
(5)	Each QSE is responsible for representing its Split Generation Resource in its Current Operating Plan (COP).  During the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) Study Periods, any conflict in the Resource Status of a Split Generation Resource in the COP is resolved according to the following:
(a)	If a Split Generation Resource has a Resource Status of OUT for any hour in the COP, then any other QSEs’ COP entries for their Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource are also considered unavailable for the hour; 
(b)	If the QSEs for all Split Generation Resources from the same Generation Resource have submitted a COP and at least one of the QSEs has an On-Line Resource Status in a given hour, then the status for all Split Generation Resources for the Generation Resource is considered to be On-Line for that hour, except if any of the QSEs has indicated in the COP a Resource Status of OUT.
(6)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource shall update its individual Resource Status appropriately.
(7)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource may independently submit Energy Offer Curves and Three-Part Supply Offers.  ERCOT shall treat each Split Generation Resource offer as a separate offer, except that all Split Generation Resources in a single Generation Resource must be committed or decommitted together. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (7) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(7)	Each QSE representing a Split Generation Resource may independently submit Energy Offer Curves, Ancillary Service Offers, and Three-Part Supply Offers.  ERCOT shall treat each Split Generation Resource offer as a separate offer, except that all Split Generation Resources in a single Generation Resource must be committed or decommitted together.
(8)	Each QSE submitting verifiable cost data to ERCOT shall coordinate among all owners of a single Generation Resource to provide individual Split Generation Resource data consistent with the total verifiable cost of the entire Generation Resource.  ERCOT may compare the total verifiable costs with other similarly situated Generation Resources to determine the reasonability of the cost.
3.8.2	Combined Cycle Generation Resources
(1)	ERCOT shall assign a logical Resource Node for use in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), RUC, Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM), Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) and Load Frequency Control (LFC) to each registered Combined Cycle Train.  Each Combined Cycle Generation Resource registered in the Combined Cycle Train will be mapped to the Combined Cycle Train logical Resource Node for the purposes of evaluating and settling each Combined Cycle Generation Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer and Ancillary Service Offer in the DAM, RUC and SCED.  Each generation unit identified in the Combined Cycle Train registration for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource configuration will be mapped to its designated Resource Node as determined in accordance with these Protocols and the Other Binding Document titled “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	ERCOT shall assign a logical Resource Node for use in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), RUC, Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) and Load Frequency Control (LFC) to each registered Combined Cycle Train.  Each Combined Cycle Generation Resource registered in the Combined Cycle Train will be mapped to the Combined Cycle Train logical Resource Node for the purposes of evaluating and settling each Combined Cycle Generation Resource’s Three-Part Supply Offer and Ancillary Service Offer in the DAM, RUC and SCED.  Each generation unit identified in the Combined Cycle Train registration for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource configuration will be mapped to its designated Resource Node as determined in accordance with these Protocols and the Other Binding Document titled “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”
(2)	If any of the generation units, designated in the Combined Cycle Train registration as a primary generation unit in a Combined Cycle Generation Resource, is isolated from the ERCOT Transmission Grid because of a transmission Outage reported in the Outage Scheduler, the DAM and RUC applications shall select an alternate generation unit for use in the application.
(3)	Three-Part Supply Offers submitted for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource will be modeled as High Reasonability Limit (HRL)-weighted injections at the Resource Connectivity Nodes of the associated Generation Resources.  ERCOT shall use the logical Resource Node to settle these offers. 
(4)	In the DAM and RUC, ERCOT shall model the energy injection from each generation unit registered to the Combine Cycle Generation Resource designated in a Three-Part Supply Offer as follows:
(a)	The energy injection for each generation unit registered in the Combined Cycle Generation Resource designated in a Three-Part Supply Offer shall be the offered energy injection for the selected price point on the Three-Part Supply Offer’s Energy Offer Curve times a weight factor as determined in paragraph (4)(b) below. 
(b)	The weight factor for each generation unit registered in a Combined Cycle Generation Resource shall be the generation unit’s HRL, as specified in the Resource Registration data provided to ERCOT pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, divided by the total of all HRL values for the generation units registered in the designated Combined Cycle Generation Resource.
(5)	In the Network Operations Network Models used in the DAM, RUC and SCED applications, each generation unit identified in the Combined Cycle Train registration must be modeled at its Resource Connectivity Node.
(6)	For Ancillary Services offered and provided from Combined Cycle Generation Resources, ERCOT shall apply, without exception, the same rules and requirements specified in these Protocols for the DAM, RUC and Adjustment Period and Real-Time markets that apply to Ancillary Services provided from any other Generation Resources. 
(a)	ERCOT systems shall determine the High and Low Ancillary Service Limits (HASL and LASL) for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource as follows:
(i)	In Real Time, relative to the telemetered High Sustained Limit (HSL) for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource, or
(ii)	During the DAM and RUC study periods, relative to the HSL in the COP.
(b)	The QSE shall assure that the Combined Cycle Generation Resource designated as On-Line through telemetry or in the COP can meet its Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(6)	For Ancillary Services offered and provided from Combined Cycle Generation Resources, ERCOT shall apply, without exception, the same rules and requirements specified in these Protocols for the DAM, RUC and Adjustment Period and Real-Time markets that apply to Ancillary Services provided from any other Generation Resources. 
(a)	ERCOT systems shall determine the operating limits for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource as follows:
(i)	In Real-Time, relative to the telemetered capacity limits, ramp rates, and Ancillary Service capabilities for the Combined Cycle Generation Resource;
(ii)	During the DAM study period, relative to the HSL in the COP; or
(iii) 	During the RUC Study Period, relative to the capacity limits and Ancillary Service capabilities in the COP.
3.8.3	Quick Start Generation Resources
(1)	The QSE for a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) that is available for deployment by SCED shall set the COP Resource Status to OFFQS, and the COP Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and COP HSL values to the expected sustainable LSL and HSL for the QSGR for the hour.  If the QSGR is providing Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) service, then the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin shall be set to the Resource’s QSE-assigned Non-Spin responsibility in the COP.  If the QSGR is providing ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS), then the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for ECRS shall be set to the Resource’s QSE-assigned ECRS responsibility in the COP. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(1)	The QSE for a Quick Start Generation Resource (QSGR) that is available for deployment by SCED and awarding of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) and Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin), if qualified and capable, shall set the COP Resource Status to OFFQS, and the COP Low Sustained Limit (LSL) and COP HSL values to the expected sustainable LSL and HSL for the QSGR for the hour.
(2)	The QSGR that is available for deployment by SCED shall telemeter a Resource Status of OFFQS and a LSL of zero prior to receiving a deployment instruction from SCED.  This status is necessary in order for SCED to recognize that the Resource can be Dispatched.  The status of the breaker shall be open and the output of the Resource shall be zero in order for the State Estimator to correctly assess the state of the system.  After being deployed for energy from SCED, the Resource shall telemeter an LSL equal to or less than the Resource’s actual output until the Resource has ramped to its physical LSL.  After reaching its physical LSL, the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL that reflects its physical LSL.  The QSGR that is providing Off-Line Non-Spin shall always telemeter an Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for Non-Spin to reflect the Resource’s Non-Spin obligation and shall always telemeter an Ancillary Service Schedule for Non-Spin of zero to make the capacity available for SCED.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	The QSGR that is available for deployment by SCED and awarding of ECRS and Non-Spin, if qualified and capable, shall telemeter a Resource Status of OFFQS and a LSL of zero prior to receiving a deployment instruction from SCED.  This status is necessary in order for SCED to recognize that the Resource can be Dispatched and/or awarded ECRS and Non-Spin.  The status of the breaker shall be open and the output of the Resource shall be zero in order for the State Estimator to correctly assess the state of the system.  After being deployed for energy from SCED, the Resource shall telemeter an LSL equal to or less than the Resource’s actual output until the Resource has ramped to its physical LSL.  After reaching its physical LSL, the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL that reflects its physical LSL.
(3)	A QSGR with a telemeter breaker status of open and a telemeter Resource Status OFFQS shall not provide Regulation Service or Responsive Reserve (RRS).
(4)	ERCOT shall adjust the QSGR’s Mitigated Offer Cap (MOC) curve as described in Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap.
(5)	For a QSGR that is physically Off-Line, the Resource Entity shall submit a Normal Ramp Rate curve and Emergency Ramp Rate curve indicating QSGR’s ability to reach its ten-minute tested output from zero output in five minutes.  This is necessary to prevent SCED from deploying multiple QSGRs due to ramp limitation in the first five minutes after being Dispatched by SCED.  QSGRs shall be exempt from Base Point Deviation Charges as described in Section 6.6.5.3, Resources Exempt from Deviation Charges.
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(5)	For a QSGR that is physically Off-Line, the Resource Entity shall submit a Normal Ramp Rate curve and Emergency Ramp Rate curve indicating QSGR’s ability to reach its ten-minute tested output from zero output in five minutes.  This is necessary to prevent SCED from deploying multiple QSGRs due to ramp limitation in the first five minutes after being Dispatched by SCED.  QSGRs shall be exempt from Set Point Deviation Charges as described in Section 6.6.5.3, Resources Exempt from Deviation Charges.
(6)	Any hour in which the QSE for the QSGR has shown the Resource as available for SCED Dispatch as described in this Section 3.8.3 is considered a QSE-Committed Interval.
(7)	QSEs must submit and maintain an Energy Offer Curve for their QSGRs for all hours in which the COP Resource Status is submitted as OFFQS.  If a valid Energy Offer Curve or an Output Schedule does not exist for any QSGR for which a Resource Status of OFFQS is telemetered at the end of the Adjustment Period, then ERCOT shall notify the QSE and set the Output Schedule equal to the then-current telemetered output of the Resource until an Output Schedule or Energy Offer Curve is submitted in a subsequent Adjustment Period.  For use as SCED inputs, ERCOT shall create proxy Energy Offer Curves for the Resource as described in paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.7.3, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch.
(8)	Other than for the potential decommitment of a QSGR as described in Section 3.8.3.1, Quick Start Generation Resource Decommitment Decision Process, following a SCED QSGR deployment, the QSGR is expected to follow the SCED Base Points.
3.8.3.1	Quick Start Generation Resource Decommitment Decision Process
(1)	For purposes of determining whether SCED needs a QSGR to continue to generate per paragraph (3) of Section 6.6.9, Emergency Operations Settlement, the QSE representing the QSGR shall telemeter an LSL of zero for at least one but no more than two non-consecutive SCED executions in each Operating Hour during which the QSGR is operating with a SCED Base Point equal to its registered LSL and shall telemeter Normal and Emergency Ramp Rates indicating that the QSGR can be Dispatched to zero output in a single SCED interval.    
(a)	If the SCED issued Base Point for the QSGR is non-zero in the interval where a zero LSL has been telemetered by the QSE, then the QSGR is deemed needed by SCED and the QSE shall immediately resume telemetering an LSL equal to the physical LSL and continue to operate the unit following subsequent Base Points.  
(b)	If the Base Point is zero, then the QSE will decommit the QSGR using normal operating practices.  
(c)	If at any point during the period in which the QSGR is in SHUTDOWN mode, the QSGR Locational Marginal Price (LMP) is greater than or equal to the Energy Offer Curve price, capped per Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap, the QSE may reverse the decommitment process, if possible and make the QSGR available for SCED following normal operating practices.
3.8.4	Generation Resources Operating in Synchronous Condenser Fast-Response Mode
(1)	A QSE is considered to have performed for the amount of its RRS obligation for the MW amount provided by a Generation Resource operating in synchronous condenser fast-response mode and triggered by an under-frequency relay device at the frequency set point specified in paragraph (3)(c) of Section 3.18, Resource Limits in Providing Ancillary Service, without corresponding RRS deployment by ERCOT.  This provision applies only for the duration when RRS MW is deployed by automatic under-frequency relay action.
3.8.5	Energy Storage Resources
(1)	For the purposes of all ERCOT Protocols and Other Binding Documents, all requirements that apply to Generation Resources and Controllable Load Resources shall be understood to apply to ESRs to the same extent, except where the Protocols explicitly provide otherwise.
[NPRR1246:  Delete paragraph (1) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(2)	A QSE representing an ESR may update the telemetered HSL and/or Maximum Power Consumption (MPC) for the ESR in Real-Time to ensure the ability to meet the ESR’s full Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility for the current Operating Hour.  This provision only applies when the MOC for an ESR is set at the System-Wide Offer Cap (SWCAP) pursuant to paragraph (1)(b) of Section 4.4.9.4.1, Mitigated Offer Cap.
[NPRR1075:  Delete paragraph (2) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project.]
(3)	A QSE representing an ESR may update the telemetered HSL and/or MPC for the ESR in Real-Time to reflect state of charge limitations. 
[NPRR1075:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1014:]
(3)	A QSE representing an ESR may update the telemetered HSL and/or LSL for the ESR in Real-Time to reflect state of charge limitations. 
(4)	A QSE representing an ESR co-located with a Generation Resource may reduce the telemetered MPC of the Controllable Load Resource modeled to represent the charging side of the ESR when self-charging using output from the Generation Resource.  Such reduction in MPC shall be equal to the MW level of self-charge. 
[NPRR1075:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1014:]
(4)	A QSE representing an ESR co-located with a Generation Resource may update the telemetered LSL of the ESR when self-charging (using output from the Generation Resource).  The updated LSL shall be equal to the MW level of self-charge.
3.8.6	Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs) and Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs)
(1)	As a condition for the interconnection of a DGR or DESR, the affected Resource Entity, after consultation with the relevant Distribution Service Provider (DSP), shall provide documentation from the DSP to ERCOT stating that the interconnecting distribution circuit will not be disconnected as part of an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) Level 3, an under-frequency Load shedding event, or an under-voltage Load shedding event, unless required for DSP local system maintenance or during a DSP local system emergency.  
(a)	If a DSP subsequently determines that any circuit to which a DGR or DESR is interconnected will need to be disconnected during these Load shedding events, or that a DGR or DESR will need to be moved to a circuit that will be disconnected during these Load shedding events:
(i)	The DSP shall promptly notify the designated contact for the DGR or DESR;
(ii)	The Resource Entity shall promptly notify ERCOT of this fact via the Resource Registration process; and 
(iii)	The DGR or DESR will immediately be disqualified from offering to provide any Ancillary Service.
(b)	Upon receiving notification from the DSP that the DGR or DESR is no longer subject to disconnection during any of these Load shedding events, and that no known system limitations or changes have occurred that would inhibit the DGR or DESR from complying with Ancillary Service performance requirements, the Resource Entity for the DGR or DESR shall notify ERCOT of this fact via the Resource Registration process and will, at that time, be eligible to offer to provide Ancillary Services if the Resource is otherwise qualified to do so.
[NPRR1171 and NPRR1213:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR1171; or upon system implementation and upon system implementation of NPRR1171 for NPRR1213, and renumber accordingly:]
(1)	As a condition for the interconnection of a DGR or DESR, the affected Resource Entity, after consultation with the relevant Distribution Service Provider (DSP), shall submit an executed Section 23, Form R, Interconnection Circuit Designation for Distribution Generation Resources (DGRs) and Distribution Energy Storage Resources (DESRs).
(a)	The DSP shall indicate that the interconnecting distribution circuit for the DGR or DESR is subject to Load shed if the DSP determines that the distribution circuit may be disconnected as part of an Energy Emergency Alert (EEA) Level 3 Load shedding event, an Under-Frequency Load Shed (UFLS) event, or an Under-Voltage Load Shed (UVLS) event.
(b)	The DSP shall indicate that the interconnecting distribution circuit for the DGR or DESR is not subject to Load shed if the DSP determines that the distribution circuit will not be disconnected for any Load shed purpose during any of the events listed in paragraph (a) above.  This condition may be met where:
(i)	A DGR or DESR is connected to a distribution circuit which the DSP has excluded from Load shedding events, which may include, but is not limited to, a distribution circuit that interconnects only DGRs or DESRs; or
(ii)	A DGR or DESR is connected to a distribution circuit where a recloser or other sectionalizing device excludes the DGR or DESR from Load shedding events on the distribution circuit.
(c)	If the DSP has indicated that the interconnecting distribution circuit may be subject to Load shed, the DGR or DESR may qualify to provide only the following Ancillary Services, subject to the limits established by ERCOT pursuant to Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities:
(i)	Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin);
(ii)	ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS); and 
(iii)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down).
(d)	If the DSP has indicated that the interconnecting distribution circuit is not subject to Load shed, then the DGR or DESR shall not be subject to the Ancillary Service qualification limitations described in paragraph (c) above.
(e)	The DSP shall identify on Section 23, Form R, whether the DSP has identified any operational limitations for the DGR or DESR based on known system limitations and planning or operational studies, including studies performed in accordance with Planning Guide Section 5.4.2, Submission of Interconnection Agreement and TSP and/or DSP Studies and Technical Requirements.  Temporary limitations, such as may occur during maintenance outage conditions, are not required to be reported on Section 23, Form R.
(2)	If a DSP at any time after the interconnection of a DGR or DESR determines that any circuit to which the DGR or DESR is interconnected will be subject to Load shed during any of the Load shedding events listed in paragraph (1)(a) above, or that a DGR or DESR will need to be electrically relocated to a circuit that will be subject to Load shed during these Load shedding events:
(a)	The DSP shall promptly notify ERCOT and the designated contact for the DGR or DESR;
(b)	The Resource Entity for the DGR or DESR shall promptly submit an updated Section 23, Form R, to ERCOT and shall make a corresponding update to its Resource Registration data; and
(c)	The Ancillary Service qualification limitations in paragraph (1)(c) above will apply to the DGR or DESR.
(3)	If a DGR or DESR is interconnected to a circuit that is subject to Load shed and then either is relocated to a different circuit that is not subject to Load shed during any of the Load shed events listed in paragraph (1)(a) above or receives notification from the DSP that the DGR or DESR is no longer subject to Load shed during any of these events, the Resource Entity for the DGR or DESR shall submit an updated Section 23, Form R, to ERCOT and shall make a corresponding update to its Resource Registration data.
(2)	For a proposed conversion of an existing Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) to a DGR or DESR, the interconnecting DSP will evaluate the proposed conversion and will determine whether it is electrically and operationally feasible.  If the interconnecting DSP determines that the conversion is not electrically or operationally feasible, the DSP may disallow the conversion. 
[NPRR995 and NPRR1171:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(2)	For a proposed conversion of an existing Settlement Only Distribution Generator (SODG) to a DGR or for a proposed conversion of an existing Settlement Only Distribution Energy Storage System (SODESS) to a DESR, the Resource Entity will follow the generation interconnection process outlined in Planning Guide Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification.
(3)	The Resource Node for a DGR or DESR shall be fixed at a single Electrical Bus in the ERCOT Network Operations Model.
(a)	If a DSP determines that a topology change has altered, or is expected to alter, the electrical path connecting the DGR or DESR to the ERCOT Transmission Grid for a period longer than 60 days:
(i)	The DSP shall promptly notify the interconnecting Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the designated contact for the DGR or DESR, and the interconnecting TSP shall notify ERCOT; and
(ii)	The Resource Entity shall submit a change request to ERCOT via the Resource Registration process.
3.8.7	Self-Limiting Facility 
(1)	A Resource Entity or Interconnecting Entity (IE) for a Self-Limiting Facility may establish a MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit by submitting an attestation in a form designated by ERCOT through the Resource Registration process.  The Resource Entity or IE shall simultaneously provide a copy of the attestation to the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP).  All Resources within a Self-Limiting Facility shall be represented by a single Resource Entity and a single QSE.
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	A Resource Entity or Interconnecting Entity (IE) for a Self-Limiting Facility may establish a MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit by submitting an attestation in a form designated by ERCOT through the Resource Registration process.  The Resource Entity or IE shall simultaneously provide a copy of the attestation to the interconnecting Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider (TDSP).  All registered generators or Energy Storage Resources (ESRs) within a Self-Limiting Facility shall be represented by a single Resource Entity and a single QSE.
(2)	A Self-Limiting Facility shall not inject or withdraw power in excess of its established MW Injection limit or its established MW Withdrawal limit. 
(3)	On a monthly basis, ERCOT will report to the Reliability Monitor and IMM any instance where a Self-Limiting Facility’s actual MW Injections exceeded the MW Injection limit or where actual MW Withdrawals exceeded the MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data for the Self-Limiting Facility, as described in Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria. 
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(3)	On a monthly basis, ERCOT will report to the Reliability Monitor and IMM any instance where a Self-Limiting Facility’s actual MW Injections exceeded the MW Injection limit or where actual MW Withdrawals exceeded the MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data for the Self-Limiting Facility, based on the telemetry of the injection and withdrawal values provided by the QSE for the registered generator or ESS in the Self-Limiting Facility, as described in Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria, and in Section 6.5.5.2, Operational Data Requirements, or based on the meter data at the Point of Interconnection (POI) or Point of Common Coupling (POCC) for the Self-Limiting Facility.
(4)	If requested by ERCOT, the relevant QSE shall provide meter data to confirm whether the established limits for a Self-Limiting Facility were violated. 
(5)	If ERCOT determines that a Self-Limiting Facility connected at transmission voltage has exceeded either its MW Injection limit or its MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data by more than the greater of 5 MW or 3% of the limit, the Self-Limiting Facility shall submit a new generation interconnection request based on the installed MW capacity of the individual Resource(s) and shall deregister as a Self-Limiting Facility at the completion of the generation interconnection process.  The Self-Limiting Facility shall be subject to the established MW Injection limit and any established MW Withdrawal limit until the generation interconnection process has been completed.   
(6)	A Distribution Service Provider (DSP) may limit injections and withdrawals from any Generation Resource or ESR based on Resource Registration data and the interconnection agreement between the DSP and the IE or Resource Entity.  In that case, the IE or Resource Entity shall submit the attestation required by paragraph (1) above, and shall be considered a Self-Limiting Facility.  
[NPRR1077:  Replace paragraph (6) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(6)	A Distribution Service Provider (DSP) may limit injections and withdrawals from any Generation Resource, Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or ESR based on Resource Registration data and the interconnection agreement between the DSP and the IE or Resource Entity.  In that case, the IE or Resource Entity shall submit the attestation required by paragraph (1) above, and shall be considered a Self-Limiting Facility.
(7)	If ERCOT determines that a Self-Limiting Facility connected at distribution voltage has exceeded either its MW Injection limit or its MW Withdrawal limit established in the Resource Registration data, the Self-Limiting Facility shall submit a new generation interconnection request based on the installed MW capacity of the individual Resource(s) and shall be deregistered as a Self-Limiting Facility at the completion of the generation interconnection process.  The Self-Limiting Facility shall be subject to any MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limit until the generation interconnection process has been completed.     
(8)	The interconnecting TDSP, at its sole discretion, may use relaying to ensure a Self-Limiting Facility does not inject or withdraw energy in excess of its MW Injection or MW Withdrawal limits in order to protect the TDSP’s limiting element(s). 
[NPRR1029:  Insert Section 3.8.8 below upon system implementation:]
3.8.8	DC-Coupled Resources  
(1)	A DC-Coupled Resource shall be treated in the same manner as an Energy Storage Resource (ESR) for the purposes of determining Set Point Deviation Charges, as described in Section 6.6.5, Set Point Deviation Charge, and Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance (ESREDP), as described in Section 8.1.1.4.1, Regulation Service and Generation Resource/Controllable Load Resource/Energy Storage Resource Energy Deployment Performance, and Ancillary Service Capacity Performance Metrics, under one of the following conditions:
(a)	The Resource was awarded Ancillary Service;
(b)	The Resource’s instantaneous MW Injection or MW Withdrawal includes non-zero MW from the ESS component of the DC-Coupled Resource; or
(c)	The Resource’s telemetered HSL or LSL includes the ESS capability. 
(2)	At all other times, a DC-Coupled Resource shall be treated in the same manner as an IRR for the purposes of determining Set Point Deviation Charges, as described in Section 6.6.5, and ESREDP, as described in Section 8.1.1.4.1.
(3)	A QSE representing a DC-Coupled Resource that does not meet any of the conditions in paragraph (1) above: 
(a)	Shall set the Resource’s telemetered HSL equal to the current net output capability of the intermittent renewable generation component of the DC-Coupled Resource; and
(b)	Shall set the Resource’s output at or below the SCED Base Point telemetered by ERCOT if the Resource receives a flag indicating that SCED has dispatched it below the Resource’s HDL used by SCED or that it has been instructed not to exceed its Base Point.
3.9	Current Operating Plan (COP) 
(1)	Each Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) that represents a Resource must submit a Current Operating Plan (COP) under this Section. 
(2)	ERCOT shall use the information provided in the COP to calculate the High Ancillary Service Limit (HASL) and Low Ancillary Service Limit (LASL) for each Resource for the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) processes. 
[NPRR1007:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(2)	ERCOT shall use the information provided in the COP to calculate operating limits and Ancillary Service capabilities for each Resource for the Reliability Unit Commitment (RUC) processes.
(3)	ERCOT shall monitor the accuracy of each QSE’s COP as outlined in Section 8, Performance Monitoring.  
(4)	A QSE must notify ERCOT that it plans to have a Resource On-Line by means of the COP using the Resource Status codes listed in paragraph (5)(b)(i) of Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria.  The QSE must show the Resource as On-Line with a Resource Status of ONRUC, indicating a RUC process committed the Resource for all RUC-Committed Intervals.  A QSE may only use a RUC-committed Resource during that Resource’s RUC-Committed Interval to meet the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility if the Resource has been committed by the RUC process to provide Ancillary Service.
(5)	To reflect changes to a Resource’s capability, each QSE shall report by exception, changes to the COP for all hours after the Operating Period through the rest of the Operating Day.  
(6)	When a QSE updates its COP to show changes in Resource Status, the QSE shall update for each On-Line Resource, either an Energy Offer Curve under Section 4.4.9, Energy Offers and Bids, or Output Schedule under Section 6.4.2, Output Schedules.  
(7)	Each QSE, including QSEs representing Reliability Must-Run (RMR) Units, Firm Fuel Supply Service Resources (FFSSRs), or Black Start Resources, shall submit a revised COP reflecting changes in Resource availability as soon as reasonably practicable, but in no event later than 60 minutes after the event that caused the change.
(8)	Each QSE representing a Qualifying Facility (QF) must submit a Low Sustained Limit (LSL) that represents the minimum energy available, in MW, from the unit for economic dispatch based on the minimum stable steam delivery to the thermal host plus a justifiable reliability margin that accounts for changes in ambient conditions. 
(9)	When ERCOT issues a communication in the form of an Operating Condition Notice (OCN), Advisory, Watch, or Emergency Notice due to forecasted or actual cold or hot weather, for each Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR) a QSE represents, the QSE shall update the COP, Real-Time telemetry, and Outage or derate reporting to reflect any Resource-specific operating limitations based on: (i) capability and availability; (ii) fuel supply or inventory concerns, including fuel switching capabilities; or (iii) environmental constraints and the impact on the Generation Resource or ESR due to the weather conditions.  QSEs shall provide these updates in accordance with Sections 3.1.4, Communications Regarding Resource and Transmission Facility Outages; 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements; 3.9, Current Operating Plan (COP); 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria; and Nodal Operating Guide Section 7.3, Telemetry. 
3.9.1	Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria
(1)	Each QSE that represents a Resource must submit a COP to ERCOT that reflects expected operating conditions for each Resource for each hour in the next seven Operating Days.
(2)	Each QSE that represents a Resource shall update its COP reflecting changes in availability of any Resource as soon as reasonably practicable, but in no event later than 60 minutes after the event that caused the change.  Each QSE shall timely update its COP unless in the reasonable judgment of the QSE, such compliance would create an undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment.  The QSE is excused from updating the COP only for so long as the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment exists.  The time for updating the COP begins once the undue threat to safety, undue risk of bodily harm, or undue damage to equipment no longer exists.
(3)	The Resource capacity in a QSE’s COP must be sufficient to supply the Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility of that QSE.  Additionally, for a COP provided for an ESR, the QSE shall ensure that the Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC) for any two consecutive hours shall be feasible based on the ESR’s maximum rate of charge or discharge.
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, NPRR1029, and NPRR1204:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007 and NPRR1204; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(3)	Each QSE that represents a Resource shall update its COP to reflect the ability of the Resource to provide each Ancillary Service by product and sub-type.  Additionally, for a COP provided for an ESR, the QSE shall ensure that the Hour Beginning Planned State of Charge (SOC) for any two consecutive hours shall be feasible based on the ESR’s maximum rate of charge or discharge.
(4)	Load Resource COP values may be adjusted to reflect Distribution Losses in accordance with Section 8.1.1.2, General Capacity Testing Requirements.
(5)	A COP must include the following for each Resource represented by the QSE:
(a)	The name of the Resource;
(b)	The expected Resource Status:
(i)	Select one of the following for Generation Resources synchronized to the ERCOT System that best describes the Resource’s status.  Unless otherwise provided below, these Resource Statuses are to be used for COP and/or Real-Time telemetry purposes, as appropriate.
(A)	ONRUC – On-Line and the hour is a RUC-Committed Hour;
(B)	ONREG – On-Line Resource with Energy Offer Curve providing Regulation Service;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (B) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(C)	ON – On-Line Resource with Energy Offer Curve;
(D)	ONDSR – On-Line Dynamically Scheduled Resource (DSR);
[NPRR1000:  Delete item (D) above upon system implementation and renumber accordingly.]
(E)	ONOS – On-Line Resource with Output Schedule;
(F)	ONOSREG – On-Line Resource with Output Schedule providing Regulation Service;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (F) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(G)	ONDSRREG – On-Line DSR providing Regulation Service;
[NPRR1000, NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (G) above upon system implementation for NPRR1000, NPRR1014, or NPRR1029; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; and renumber accordingly.]
(H)	FRRSUP – Available for Dispatch of Fast Responding Regulation Service (FRRS).  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (H) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 and NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(I)	ONTEST – On-Line blocked from Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) for operations testing (while ONTEST, a Generation Resource may be shown on Outage in the Outage Scheduler);
(J)	ONEMR – On-Line EMR (available for commitment or dispatch only for ERCOT-declared Emergency Conditions; the QSE may appropriately set LSL and High Sustained Limit (HSL) to reflect operating limits);
(K)	ONRR – On-Line as a synchronous condenser providing Responsive Reserve (RRS) but unavailable for Dispatch by SCED and available for commitment by RUC;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (K) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(L)	ONECRS – On-Line as a synchronous condenser providing ERCOT Contingency Response Service (ECRS) but unavailable for Dispatch by SCED and available for commitment by RUC;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (L) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(M)	ONOPTOUT – On-Line and the hour is a RUC Buy-Back Hour; 
(N)	SHUTDOWN – The Resource is On-Line and in a shutdown sequence, and has no Ancillary Service Obligations other than Off-Line Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin) which the Resource will provide following the shutdown.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (N) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(N)	SHUTDOWN – The Resource is On-Line and in a shutdown sequence, and is not eligible for an Ancillary Service award.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
(O)	STARTUP – The Resource is On-Line and in a start-up sequence and has no Ancillary Service Obligations.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (O) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(O)	STARTUP – The Resource is On-Line and in a start-up sequence and is not eligible for an Ancillary Service award, unless coming On-Line in response to a manual deployment of ERCOT Contingency Reserve Service (ECRS) or Non-Spinning Reserve (Non-Spin).  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
(P)	OFFQS – Off-Line but available for SCED deployment.  Only qualified Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) may utilize this status; 
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (P) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(P)	OFFQS – Off-Line but available for SCED deployment and to provide ECRS and Non-Spin, if qualified and capable.  Only qualified Quick Start Generation Resources (QSGRs) may utilize this status;
(Q)	ONFFRRRS – Available for Dispatch of RRS when providing Fast Frequency Response (FFR) from Generation Resources.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes.  A Resource with this Resource Status may also be providing Ancillary Services other than FFR; and
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (Q) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Insert  item (K) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(K)	ONSC – Resource is On-Line operating as a synchronous condenser and available to provide Responsive Reserve (RRS) and ECRS, if qualified and capable, and for commitment by RUC, but is unavailable for Dispatch by SCED.  For SCED, Resource Base Points will be set equal to the telemetered net real power of the Resource available at the time of the SCED execution; and
(R)	ONHOLD – Resource is On-Line but temporarily unavailable for Dispatch by SCED or for participating in Ancillary Services.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes.  For SCED, Resource Base Points will be set equal to the telemetered net real power of the Resource available at the time of the SCED execution.
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, NPRR1029, and NPRR1188:  Replace item (R) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014, NPRR1029, or NPRR1188:]
(R)	ONHOLD – Resource is On-Line but temporarily unavailable for Dispatch by SCED or Ancillary Service awards due to a valid and verifiable operational reason.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes.  For SCED, Resource Base Points will be set equal to the telemetered net real power of the Resource available at the time of the SCED execution.
(ii)	Select one of the following for Off-Line Generation Resources not synchronized to the ERCOT System that best describes the Resource’s status.  These Resource Statuses are to be used for COP and/or Real-Time telemetry purposes, as appropriate.
(A)	OUT – Off-Line and unavailable, or not connected to the ERCOT System and operating in a Private Microgrid Island (PMI);
(B)	OFFNS – Off-Line but reserved for Non-Spin;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (B) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(C)	OFF – Off-Line but available for commitment in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) and RUC;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace item (C) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(B)	OFF – Off-Line but available for commitment in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), RUC, and providing Non-Spin, if qualified and capable;
(D)	EMR – Available for commitment as a Resource contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1, Reliability Must Run, or under paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, ERCOT Control Area Authority, or available for commitment only for ERCOT-declared Emergency Condition events; the QSE may appropriately set LSL and HSL to reflect operating limits;
(E)	EMRSWGR – Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) operating in a non-ERCOT Control Area, or in the case of a Combined Cycle Train with one or more SWGRs, a configuration in which one or more of the physical units in that configuration are operating in a non-ERCOT Control Area.
(iii)	Select one of the following for Load Resources.  Unless otherwise provided below, these Resource Statuses are to be used for COP and/or Real-Time telemetry purposes.
(A)	ONRGL – Available for Dispatch of Regulation Service by Load Frequency Control (LFC) and, for any remaining Dispatchable capacity, by SCED with a Real-Time Market (RTM) Energy Bid; 
[NPRR1188:  Replace item (A) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(A)	ONRGL – Available for Dispatch of Regulation Service by Load Frequency Control (LFC) and, for any remaining Dispatchable capacity, by SCED with an Energy Bid Curve;
(B)	FRRSUP – Available for Dispatch of FRRS by LFC and not Dispatchable by SCED.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
(C)	FRRSDN – Available for Dispatch of FRRS by LFC and not Dispatchable by SCED.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;  
(D)	ONCLR – Available for Dispatch as a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) by SCED with an RTM Energy Bid;
[NPRR1188:  Replace item (D) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(D)	ONCLR – Available for Dispatch as a Controllable Load Resource (CLR) by SCED with an Energy Bid Curve;
(E)	ONRL – Available for Dispatch of RRS or Non-Spin, excluding CLRs.  A Load Resource, excluding CLR, may not provide ECRS with this Resource Status;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete items (A)-(E) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
[NPRR1188:  Insert items (F) and (G) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(F)	ONTEST – On-Line blocked from SCED for operations testing;
(G)	ONHOLD – CLR is On-Line but temporarily unavailable for Dispatch by SCED or providing Ancillary Service due to a valid and verifiable operational reason.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes.  For SCED, Resource Base Points will be set equal to the telemetered net real power of the Resource available at the time of the SCED execution.
(F)	ONECL – Available for Dispatch of ECRS or available for Dispatch of ECRS and RRS simultaneously, excluding CLRs;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (F) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029; and renumber accordingly.]
(G)	OUTL – Not available;
[NPRR1188:  Replace item (G) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(I)	OUTL – Not available.  For a CLR that is not an Aggregate Load Resource (ALR), this status can only be used when the Resource is Off-Line and unavailable with its energy consumption at zero;
(H)	ONFFRRRSL – Available for Dispatch of RRS when providing FFR, excluding CLRs.  This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes;
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete item (H) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029.]
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, NPRR1029:  Insert item (B) below upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(B)	ONL – On-Line and available for Dispatch by SCED or providing Ancillary Services.
[NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (iv) below upon system implementation:]
(iv)	Select one of the following for Energy Storage Resources (ESRs).  Unless otherwise provided below, these Resource Statuses are to be used for COP and Real-Time telemetry purposes:
(A)	ON – On-Line Resource with Energy Bid/Offer Curve;
(B)	ONOS – On-Line Resource with Output Schedule;
(C)	ONTEST – On-Line blocked from SCED for operations testing (while ONTEST, an ESR may be shown on Outage in the Outage Scheduler);
(D)	ONEMR – On-Line EMR (available for commitment or dispatch only for ERCOT-declared Emergency Conditions; the QSE may appropriately set LSL and High Sustained Limit (HSL) to reflect operating limits);
(E)	ONHOLD – Resource is On-Line but temporarily unavailable for Dispatch by SCED or Ancillary Service awards.  ESRs shall not be discharging into or charging from the grid. This Resource Status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes; and
(F)	OUT – Off-Line and unavailable, or not connected to the ERCOT System and operating in a Private Microgrid Island (PMI);
(c)	The HSL;
(i)	For Load Resources other than CLRs, the HSL should equal the expected power consumption;
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1029:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (ii) below upon system implementation:]
(ii)	For ESRs, the HSL may be negative;
(d)	The LSL;
(i)	For Load Resources other than CLRs, the LSL should equal the expected Low Power Consumption (LPC);
[NPRR1014 and NPRR1029:  Insert applicable portions of paragraph (ii) below upon system implementation:]
(ii)	For ESRs, the LSL may be positive;
(e)	The High Emergency Limit (HEL);
(f)	The Low Emergency Limit (LEL); and
(g)	Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility capacity in MW for:
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace applicable portions of item (g) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(g)	Ancillary Service capability in MW for each product and sub-type.
(i)	Regulation Up Service (Reg-Up);
(ii)	Regulation Down Service (Reg-Down);
(iii)	RRS;
(iv)	ECRS; and
(v)	Non-Spin. 
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Delete items (i)-(v) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029.]
(h)	For ESRs:
(i)	Minimum State of Charge (MinSOC);
(ii)	Maximum State of Charge (MaxSOC); and
(iii)	Hour Beginning Planned SOC.
(6)	For Combined Cycle Generation Resources, the above items are required for each operating configuration.  In each hour only one Combined Cycle Generation Resource in a Combined Cycle Train may be assigned one of the On-Line Resource Status codes described above.
(a)	During a RUC study period, if a QSE’s COP reports multiple Combined Cycle Generation Resources in a Combined Cycle Train to be On-Line for any hour, then until the QSE corrects its COP, the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource with the largest HSL is considered to be On-Line and all other Combined Cycle Generation Resources in the Combined Cycle Train are considered to be Off-Line.  Furthermore, until the QSE corrects its COP, the Off-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resources as designated through the application of this process are ineligible for RUC commitment or de-commitment Dispatch Instructions.
(b)	For any hour in which QSE-submitted COP entries are used to determine the initial state of a Combined Cycle Generation Resource for a DAM or Day-Ahead Reliability Unit Commitment (DRUC) study and the COP shows multiple Combined Cycle Generation Resources in a Combined Cycle Train to be in an On-Line Resource Status, then until the QSE corrects its COP, the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource that has been On-Line for the longest time from the last recorded start by ERCOT systems, regardless of the reason for the start, combined with the COP Resource Status for the remaining hours of the current Operating Day, is considered to be On-Line at the start of the DRUC study period and all other COP-designated Combined Cycle Generation Resources in the Combined Cycle Train are considered to be Off-Line.
(c)	ERCOT systems shall allow only one Combined Cycle Generation Resource in a Combined Cycle Train to offer Off-Line Non-Spin in the DAM or Supplemental Ancillary Services Market (SASM).
[NPRR1007, NPRR1014, and NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1007; or upon system implementation for NPRR1014 or NPRR1029:]
(c)	ERCOT systems shall allow only one Combined Cycle Generation Resource in a Combined Cycle Train to offer Off-Line Non-Spin in the DAM or SCED.
(i)	If there are multiple Non-Spin offers from different Combined Cycle Generation Resources in a Combined Cycle Train, then prior to execution of the DAM, ERCOT shall select the Non-Spin offer from the Combined Cycle Generation Resource with the highest HSL for consideration in the DAM and ignore the other offers. 
(ii)	Combined Cycle Generation Resources offering Off-Line Non-Spin must be able to transition from the shutdown state to the offered Combined Cycle Generation Resource On-Line state and be capable of ramping to the full amount of the Non-Spin offered. 
(d)	The DAM and RUC shall honor the registered hot, intermediate or cold Startup Costs for each Combined Cycle Generation Resource registered in a Combined Cycle Train when determining the transition costs for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource.  In the DAM and RUC, the Startup Cost for a Combined Cycle Generation Resource shall be determined by the positive transition cost from the On-Line Combined Cycle Generation Resource within the Combine Cycle Train or from a shutdown condition, whichever ERCOT determines to be appropriate.
(7)	ERCOT may accept COPs only from QSEs.
(8)	For the first 168 hours of the COP, ERCOT will update the HSL values for Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) with the most recently updated Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF), and the HSL values for PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) with the most recently updated Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF).  ERCOT will notify the QSE via an Extensible Markup Language (XML) message each time COP HSL values are updated with the forecast values.  A QSE representing a WGR may override the STWPF HSL value but must submit an HSL value that is less than or equal to the amount for that Resource from the most recent STWPF provided by ERCOT; a QSE representing a PVGR may override the STPPF HSL value but must submit an HSL value that is less than or equal to the amount for that Resource from the most recent STPPF provided by ERCOT.  
[NPRR1029:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(8)	For the first 168 hours of the COP, ERCOT will update the HSL values for Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs) with the most recently updated Short-Term Wind Power Forecast (STWPF), and the HSL values for PhotoVoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) with the most recently updated Short-Term PhotoVoltaic Power Forecast (STPPF).  A QSE representing a DC-Coupled Resource shall provide the capacity value of the Energy Storage System (ESS) that is included in the HSL of the DC-Coupled Resource, and ERCOT will update the DC-Coupled Resource’s HSL with the sum of the forecasts of the intermittent renewable generation component and the QSE-submitted value for the ESS component.  ERCOT will notify the QSE via an Extensible Markup Language (XML) message each time COP HSL values are updated with the forecast values.  A QSE representing a WGR may override the STWPF HSL value but must submit an HSL value that is less than or equal to the amount for that Resource from the most recent STWPF provided by ERCOT; a QSE representing a PVGR may override the STPPF HSL value but must submit an HSL value that is less than or equal to the amount for that Resource from the most recent STPPF provided by ERCOT.  A QSE representing a DC-Coupled Resource may override the COP HSL value with a value that is lower than the ERCOT-populated value, and may override with a value that is higher than the ERCOT-populated value if the ESS component of the DC-Coupled Resource can support the higher value.
(9)	A QSE representing a Generation Resource that is not actively providing Ancillary Services or is providing Off-Line Non-Spin that the Resource will provide following the shutdown, may only use a Resource Status of SHUTDOWN to indicate to ERCOT through telemetry that the Resource is operating in a shutdown sequence or a Resource Status of ONTEST to indicate in the COP and through telemetry that the Generation Resource is performing a test of its operations either manually dispatched by the QSE or by ERCOT as part of the test.  A QSE representing a Generation Resource that is not actively providing Ancillary Services may only use a Resource Status of STARTUP to indicate to ERCOT through telemetry that the Resource is operating in a start-up sequence requiring manual control and is not available for Dispatch.
(10)	If a QSE has not submitted a valid COP for any Generation Resource for any hour in the DAM or RUC Study Period, then the Generation Resource is considered to have a Resource Status as OUT thus not available for DAM awards or RUC commitments for those hours. 
(11)	If a COP is not available for any Resource for any hour from the current hour to the start of the DAM period or RUC study, then the Resource Status for those hours are considered equal to the last known Resource Status from a previous hour’s COP or from telemetry as appropriate for that Resource.
(12)	A QSE representing a Resource may only use the Resource Status code of EMR for a Resource whose operation would have impacts that cannot be monetized and reflected through the Resource’s Energy Offer Curve or recovered through the RUC make-whole process or if the Resource has been contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1 or under paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1.  If ERCOT chooses to commit an Off-Line unit with EMR Resource Status that has been contracted by ERCOT under Section 3.14.1 or under paragraph (4) of Section 6.5.1.1, the QSE shall change its Resource Status to ONRUC.  Otherwise, the QSE shall change its Resource Status to ONEMR.
(13)     A QSE representing a Resource may use the Resource Status code of ONEMR for a        Resource that is: 
(a)	On-Line, but for equipment problems it must be held at its current output level until repair and/or replacement of equipment can be accomplished; or
(b)	A hydro unit. 
(14)	A QSE operating a Resource with a Resource Status code of ONEMR may set the HSL and LSL of the unit to be equal to ensure that SCED does not send Base Points that would move the unit.
(15)	A QSE representing a Resource may use the Resource Status code of EMRSWGR only for an SWGR.
(16)	A QSE representing a Self-Limiting Facility must ensure that the sum of the COP HSL/LSL and the sum of the telemetered HSL/LSL submitted for each Resource within the Self-Limiting Facility do not exceed either the limit on MW Injection or the limit on the MW Withdrawal established for the Self-Limiting Facility.
[NPRR1029:  Insert paragraph (17) below upon system implementation and renumber accordingly:]
(17)	A QSE representing a DC-Coupled Resource shall not submit an HSL that exceeds the inverter rating or the sum of the nameplate ratings of the generation component(s) of the Resource.
(17)	A QSE representing an ESR shall ensure that COP values for a given hour follow the following rules:
(a)	MinSOC is greater than or equal to the nameplate minimum MWh operating SOC limit;
(b)	MaxSOC is less than or equal to the nameplate maximum MWh operating SOC limit; and
(c)	Hour Beginning Planned SOC is a value between the corresponding COP values of MinSOC and MaxSOC.
3.9.2	Current Operating Plan Validation
(1)	ERCOT shall verify that each COP, on its submission, complies with the criteria described in Section 3.9.1, Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria.  ERCOT shall notify the QSE by means of the Messaging System if the QSE’s COP fails to comply with the criteria described in Section 3.9.1 and this Section 3.9.2 for any reason.  The QSE must then resubmit the COP within the appropriate market timeline.
(2)	ERCOT may reject a COP that does not meet the criteria described in Section 3.9.1.
(3)	If a Resource is designated in the COP to provide Ancillary Service, then ERCOT shall verify that the COP complies with Section 3.16, Standards for Determining Ancillary Service Quantities.  The Ancillary Service Supply Responsibilities as indicated in the Ancillary Service Resource Responsibility submitted immediately before the end of the Adjustment Period are physically binding commitments for each QSE for the corresponding Operating Period. 
(4)	ERCOT shall notify the QSE if the sum of the Ancillary Service capacity designated in the COP for each hour, by service type, is less than the QSE’s Ancillary Service Supply Responsibility for each service type for that hour.  If the QSE does not correct the deficiency within one hour after receiving the notice from ERCOT, then ERCOT shall follow the procedures outlined in Section 6.4.9.1, Evaluation and Maintenance of Ancillary Service Capacity Sufficiency. 
(5)	A QSE may change Ancillary Service Resource designations by changing its COP, subject to Section 6.4.9.1. 
(6)	If ERCOT determines that it needs more Ancillary Service during the Adjustment Period, then the QSE’s allocated portion of the additional Ancillary Service may be self-arranged.  
[NPRR1007:  Delete paragraphs (3)-(6) above upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project and renumber accordingly.]
(7)	ERCOT systems must be able to detect a change in status of a Resource shown in the COP and must provide notice to ERCOT operators of changes that a QSE makes to its COP.
(8)	A QSE representing a Resource that has an Energy Offer Curve valid for an hour of the COP may not designate a Resource Status of ONOS or ONDSR for that hour for that Resource.
[NPRR1000:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(8)	A QSE representing a Resource that has an Energy Offer Curve valid for an hour of the COP may not designate a Resource Status of ONOS for that hour for that Resource.
3.10	Network Operations Modeling and Telemetry
(1)	ERCOT shall use the physical characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all Transmission Elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from the Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) and Resource Entities to specify limits within which the transmission network is defined in the network models made available to Market Participants as noted below and used to operate the ERCOT Transmission Grid as updated.  If a Private Use Network is not registered as a Resource Entity, then ERCOT shall use equivalent model data provided by TSPs, if available, that represents the Private Use Network in the TSPs’ modeling systems for use in the Network Operations Model.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT shall use the physical characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all Transmission Elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Direct Current Tie Operators (DCTOs), and Resource Entities to specify limits within which the transmission network is defined in the network models made available to Market Participants as noted below and used to operate the ERCOT Transmission Grid as updated.  If a Private Use Network is not registered as a Resource Entity, then ERCOT shall use equivalent model data provided by TSPs, if available, that represents the Private Use Network in the TSPs’ modeling systems for use in the Network Operations Model.
(2)	Because the ERCOT market requires accurate modeling of Transmission Elements in order to send accurate Base Points and pricing signals to Market Participants, ERCOT shall manage the Network Operations Model.  By providing Base Points and pricing signals by Electrical Bus to Market Participants, the Market Participants’ responses result in power flows on all Transmission Elements that ERCOT must monitor and, if necessary for reliability reasons, manage within ratings provided by the TSP and Resource Entity and limits assigned by ERCOT including Generic Transmission Limits (GTLs) as may be defined in Section 3.10.7.6, Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(2)	Because the ERCOT market requires accurate modeling of Transmission Elements in order to send accurate Base Points and pricing signals to Market Participants, ERCOT shall manage the Network Operations Model.  By providing Base Points and pricing signals by Electrical Bus to Market Participants, the Market Participants’ responses result in power flows on all Transmission Elements that ERCOT must monitor and, if necessary for reliability reasons, manage within ratings provided by each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity and limits assigned by ERCOT including Generic Transmission Limits (GTLs) as may be defined in Section 3.10.7.6, Use of Generic Transmission Constraints and Generic Transmission Limits.
(3)	TSPs and Resource Entities shall provide ERCOT with equipment ratings and update the ratings as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT may request TSPs and Resource Entities to provide detailed information on the methodology, including data for determination of each requested rating.  ERCOT may review and comment on the methodology.  ERCOT shall post all methodologies on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within seven days following a change in methodology. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(3)	Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide ERCOT with equipment ratings and update the ratings as required by ERCOT.  ERCOT may request that a TSP, DCTO, or Resource Entity provide detailed information on the methodology, including data for determination of each requested rating.  ERCOT may review and comment on the methodology.  ERCOT shall post all methodologies on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area within seven days following a change in methodology. 
(4)	ERCOT must use system ratings consistent with the ratings expected to be used during Real-Time for the system condition being modeled, including Dynamic Ratings using expected temperatures for those system conditions.  For each model, ERCOT shall post ratings and the ambient temperatures used to calculate the ratings on the MIS Secure Area when the model is published. 
(5)	ERCOT shall use consistent information within and between the various models used by ERCOT in a manner that yields consistent results.  For operational and planning models that are intended to represent the same system state the results should be consistent and the naming should be identical.  
(6)	ERCOT shall use a Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR) process to control all information entering the Network Operations Model.  In order to allow for construction schedules, each NOMCR must be packaged as a single package describing any incremental changes and referencing any prerequisite NOMCRs, using an industry standard data exchange format.  A package must contain a series of instructions that define the changes that need to be made to implement a network model change.  ERCOT shall verify each package for completeness and accuracy prior to the period it is to be implemented.  
(7)	ERCOT shall use an automated process to manage the Common Information Model (CIM) compliant packages loaded into the Network Operations Model as each construction phase is completed.  ERCOT shall reject any NOMCRs that are not CIM compliant.  Each CIM compliant NOMCR must also be associated with commands to update the graphical displays associated with the network model modification.  During the testing phase, each NOMCR must be tested for proper sequencing and its effects on downstream applications.
(8)	ERCOT shall track each data submittal received from TSPs via the NOMCR process and from Resource Entities via the Resource Registration process.  Resource Registration data is converted by ERCOT to the appropriate NOMCR format through implementation and final testing of the change.  ERCOT shall notify each TSP and Resource Entity when the requested change is processed and implemented in accordance with Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  ERCOT shall also provide the submitting TSP a link to a Network Operations Model containing the change for verifying the implementation of the NOMCR and associated one-line displays.  ERCOT shall post all NOMCRs on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only within five Business Days following receipt of the NOMCR, consistent with the requirements regarding ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality.  When posting a NOMCR, each change must be posted using the CIM data exchange format showing incremental changes to the last Network Operations Model for TSPs only, to facilitate TSPs in updating their internal network models to reflect changes made at ERCOT.  For each NOMCR, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only the current status on the in-service date for each NOMCR, including any prerequisite NOMCRs provided by the requestor. 
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(8)	ERCOT shall track each data submittal received from TSPs and DCTOs via the NOMCR process and from Resource Entities via the Resource Registration process.  Resource Registration data is converted by ERCOT to the appropriate NOMCR format through implementation and final testing of the change.  ERCOT shall notify each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity when the requested change is processed and implemented in accordance with Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes.  ERCOT shall also provide the submitting TSP and DCTO a link to a Network Operations Model containing the change for verifying the implementation of the NOMCR and associated one-line displays.  ERCOT shall post all NOMCRs on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only within five Business Days following receipt of the NOMCR, consistent with the requirements regarding ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality.  When posting a NOMCR, each change must be posted using the CIM data exchange format showing incremental changes to the last Network Operations Model for TSPs only, to facilitate TSPs in updating their internal network models to reflect changes made at ERCOT.  For each NOMCR, ERCOT shall post on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only the current status on the in-service date for each NOMCR, including any prerequisite NOMCRs provided by the requestor. 
(9)	ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model under this Section and coordinate it with the planning models for consistency to the extent applicable.  
(10)	Any requestor of any changes in system topology or telemetry must receive approval from ERCOT before connecting of any associated equipment to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall notify a requestor of any deficiencies in its submittal for changes in system topology or telemetry.  ERCOT shall accept corrections to the submittal if the requestor has corrected any deficiencies by the required submittal date specified in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall post any changes to an NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs within three Business Days of accepting corrections.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (10) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(10)	Any requestor of any changes in system topology or telemetry must receive approval from ERCOT before connecting of any associated equipment to the ERCOT Transmission Grid.  ERCOT shall notify a requestor of any deficiencies in its submittal for changes in system topology or telemetry.  ERCOT shall accept corrections to the submittal if the requestor has corrected any deficiencies by the required submittal date specified in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall post any changes to a NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs and DCTOs within three Business Days of accepting corrections.
(11)	On receipt of the information set forth in Section 3.10.7, ERCOT System Modeling Requirements, ERCOT shall review the information and notify the requestor of any required modifications.  ERCOT may, at its discretion, require changes or more details regarding the work plan for any new or relocated facilities.  The requestor shall notify ERCOT and any other affected Entities as soon as practicable of any ERCOT requested changes to the work plan.  The requestor shall consult with other Entities likely to be affected and shall revise the work plan, following any necessary or appropriate discussions with ERCOT and other affected Entities.  ERCOT shall approve or reject the request, including any revisions made by the requestor, within 15 days of receipt of the complete request and any revisions.  Following ERCOT approval, ERCOT shall publish a summary of the revised NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (11) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(11)	On receipt of the information set forth in Section 3.10.7, ERCOT System Modeling Requirements, ERCOT shall review the information and notify the requestor of any required modifications.  ERCOT may, at its discretion, require changes or more details regarding the work plan for any new or relocated facilities.  The requestor shall notify ERCOT and any other affected Entities as soon as practicable of any ERCOT requested changes to the work plan.  The requestor shall consult with other Entities likely to be affected and shall revise the work plan, following any necessary or appropriate discussions with ERCOT and other affected Entities.  ERCOT shall approve or reject the request, including any revisions made by the requestor, within 15 days of receipt of the complete request and any revisions.  Following ERCOT approval, ERCOT shall publish a summary of the revised NOMCR on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs and DCTOs.
3.10.1	Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes
(1)	ERCOT shall perform periodic updates to the Network Operations Model.  Market Participants may provide Network Operations Model updates to ERCOT to implement planned transmission and Resource construction one year before the required submittal date below.  TSPs and Resource Entities must timely submit Network Operations Model changes pursuant to the schedule in this Section to be included in the updates.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(1)	ERCOT shall perform periodic updates to the Network Operations Model.  Market Participants may provide Network Operations Model updates to ERCOT to implement planned transmission and Resource construction one year before the required submittal date below.  TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities must timely submit Network Operations Model changes pursuant to the schedule in this Section to be included in the updates.
(2)	For a facility addition, revision, or deletion to be included in any Network Operations Model update, all technical modeling information must be submitted to ERCOT pursuant to the ERCOT NOMCR process or the applicable Resource Registration process for Resource Entities.  If a Resource Entity is required to follow the generation interconnection process for a new Generation Resource or Settlement Only Generator (SOG) as described in Planning Guide Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, it must meet the conditions of Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, before submitting a change to the Network Operations Model to reflect the new Generation Resource or SOG.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(2)	For a facility addition, revision, or deletion to be included in any Network Operations Model update, all technical modeling information must be submitted to ERCOT pursuant to the ERCOT NOMCR process or the applicable Resource Registration process for Resource Entities.  If a Resource Entity is required to follow the generation interconnection process for a new Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Settlement Only Generator (SOG), or Settlement Only Energy Storage System (SOESS) as described in Planning Guide Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification, it must meet the conditions of Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, before submitting a change to the Network Operations Model to reflect the new Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, or SOESS.
(3)	TSPs and Resource Entities shall submit all Network Operations Model updates that are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (4) below by the applicable deadline to submit information to ERCOT for the target date of inclusion in the production model detailed in the table below.  ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model according to the following table:
Deadline to Submit Information to ERCOT 
Note 1	Model Complete and Available for Test 
Note 2	Updated Network Operations Model Testing Complete
Note 3
Paragraph (6)	Update Network Operations Model Production Environment	Target Physical Equipment included in Production Model 
Note 4
Jan 1	Feb 15	March 15	April 1	Month of April
Feb 1	March 15	April 15	May 1	Month of May
March 1	April 15	May 15	June 1	Month of June
April 1	May 15	June 15	July 1	Month of July
May 1	June 15	July 15	August 1	Month of August
June 1	July 15	August 15	September 1	Month of September
July 1	August 15	September 15	October 1	Month of October
August 1	September 15	October 15	November 1	Month of November
September 1	October 15	November 15	December 1	Month of December
October 1	November 15	December 15	January 1	Month of January (the next year)
November 1	December 15	January 15	February 1	Month of February (the next year)
December 1	January 15	February 15	March 1	Month of March (the next year)
Notes: 
1.	TSP and Resource Entity data submissions complete per the NOMCR process or other ERCOT-prescribed process applicable to Resource Entities for inclusion in next update period.
2.	Network Operations Model data changes and preliminary fidelity test complete by using the Network Operations Model test facility described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities.  A test version of the Redacted Network Operations Model will be posted to the MIS Secure Area for Market Participants and Network Operations Model to the MIS Certified Area for TSPs as described in paragraph (9) of Section 3.10.4, for market review and further testing by Market Participants.
3.	Testing of the Redacted Network Operations Model by Market Participants and Network Operations Model by TSPs is complete and ERCOT begins the Energy Management System (EMS) testing prior to placing the new model into the production environment.
4.	Updates include changes starting at this date and ending within the same month.  The schedule for Operations Model load dates will be published by ERCOT on the ERCOT website.
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (3) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions:  (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities for NPRR857:]
(3)	TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities shall submit all Network Operations Model updates that are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (4) below by the applicable deadline to submit information to ERCOT for the target date of inclusion in the production model detailed in the table below.  ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model according to the following table:
Deadline to Submit Information to ERCOT 
Note 1	Model Complete and Available for Test 
Note 2	Updated Network Operations Model Testing Complete
Note 3
Paragraph (6)	Update Network Operations Model Production Environment	Target Physical Equipment included in Production Model 
Note 4
January 1	February 15	March 15	April 1	Month of April
February 1	March 15	April 15	May 1	Month of May
March 1	April 15	May 15	June 1	Month of June
April 1	May 15	June 15	July 1	Month of July
May 1	June 15	July 15	August 1	Month of August
June 1	July 15	August 15	September 1	Month of September
July 1	August 15	September 15	October 1	Month of October
August 1	September 15	October 15	November 1	Month of November
September 1	October 15	November 15	December 1	Month of December
October 1	November 15	December 15	January 1	Month of January (the next year)
November 1	December 15	January 15	February 1	Month of February (the next year)
December 1	January 15	February 15	March 1	Month of March (the next year)
Notes: 
1.	TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity data submissions complete per the NOMCR process or other ERCOT-prescribed process applicable to Resource Entities for inclusion in next update period.
2.	Network Operations Model data changes and preliminary fidelity test complete by using the Network Operations Model test facility described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.4, ERCOT Responsibilities.  A test version of the Redacted Network Operations Model will be posted to the MIS Secure Area for Market Participants and Network Operations Model to the MIS Certified Area for TSPs as described in paragraph (9) of Section 3.10.4, for market review and further testing by Market Participants.
3.	Testing of the Redacted Network Operations Model by Market Participants and Network Operations Model by TSPs is complete and ERCOT begins the Energy Management System (EMS) testing prior to placing the new model into the production environment.
4.	Updates include changes starting at this date and ending within the same month.  The schedule for Operations Model load dates will be published by ERCOT on the ERCOT website.
(4)	Resource Entities shall submit complete initial Resource Registration data for inclusion in the ERCOT Network Operations Model as described in paragraph (6) of Planning Guide Section 6.8.1, Resource Registration, by the applicable deadline for the Resource Entity to submit complete information to ERCOT for the target date of inclusion in the production model detailed in the table below.  ERCOT shall update the Network Operations Model according to the following table:
Deadline for Resource Entity to Submit Complete Information to ERCOT 
Note 1	Deadline for Resource Registration Data to Meet Criteria for ERCOT Acceptance
Note 2	Model Complete and Available for Test 
Note 3	Updated Network Operations Model Testing Complete
Note 4
Paragraph (6)	Update Network Operations Model Production Environment	Target Physical Equipment included in Production Model 
Note 5
December 1	January 1	February 15	March 15	April 1	Month of April
January 1	February 1	March 15	April 15	May 1	Month of May
February 1	March 1	April 15	May 15	June 1	Month of June
March 1	April 1	May 15	June 15	July 1	Month of July
April 1	May 1	June 15	July 15	August 1	Month of August
May 1	June 1	July 15	August 15	September 1	Month of September
June 1	July 1	August 15	September 15	October 1	Month of October
July 1	August 1	September 15	October 15	November 1	Month of November
August 1	September 1	October 15	November 15	December 1	Month of December
September 1	October 1	November 15	December 15	January 1	Month of January (the next year)
October 1	November 1	December 15	January 15	February 1	Month of February (the next year)
November 1	December 1	January 15	February 15	March 1	Month of March (the next year)
Notes:
1.	The date listed in this column shall serve as the deadline for initial submission of complete Resource Registration data to ERCOT, as described in paragraph (2) of Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process.  ERCOT may work with the Resource Entity to resolve any data quality issues found in the Resource Registration data for up to one month after the submission date that corresponds to the date listed in this column.  If ERCOT determines any Resource Registration data deficiencies are not sufficiently resolved by the end of the one-month period, then that submission shall be treated as a new initial submission for the following month.  
2.	Resource Entity data submission must be deemed complete by ERCOT with all data deficiencies resolved per the process described in Planning Guide Section 6.8.2 by this date.
3.	Network Operations Model data changes and preliminary fidelity test complete by using the Network Operations Model test facility described in paragraph (3) of Section 3.10.4.  A test version of the Redacted Network Operations Model will be posted to the MIS Secure Area for Market Participants and Network Operations Model to the MIS Certified Area for TSPs as described in paragraph (9) of Section 3.10.4, for market review and further testing by Market Participants.
4.	Testing of the Redacted Network Operations Model by Market Participants and Network Operations Model by TSPs is complete and ERCOT begins the EMS testing prior to placing the new model into the production environment.
5.	Updates include changes starting at this date and ending within the same month.  The schedule for Operations Model load dates will be published by ERCOT on the ERCOT website.
(5)	ERCOT shall only approve energization requests when the Transmission Element is satisfactorily modeled in the Network Operations Model.  
(6)	Changes to an existing NOMCR that modify only Inter-Control Center Communications Protocol (ICCP) data object names shall be provided 15 days prior to the Network Operations Model load date.  NOMCR modifications containing only ICCP data object names shall not be subject to interim update reporting to the Independent Market Monitor (IMM) and Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) (reference Section 3.10.4), according to the following:
NOMCR that contains ICCP Data and is submitted …	ERCOT shall …	Subject to IMM & PUC Reporting
Beyond 90 days of the energization date	Allow modification of only ICCP data for an existing NOMCR	No
Between 90 and 15 days prior to the scheduled database load.	Allow modification of only ICCP data for an existing NOMCR 	No
Less than 15 days before scheduled database load.	Require a new NOMCR to be submitted containing the ICCP data 	Yes
3.10.2	Annual Planning Model 
(1)	For each of the next six years, ERCOT shall develop models for annual planning purposes that contain, as much as practicable, information consistent with the Network Operations Model.  The “Annual Planning Model” for each of the next six years is a model of the ERCOT power system (created, approved, posted, and updated regularly by ERCOT) as it is expected to operate during peak Load conditions for the corresponding future year.
(2)	By October 15th of each year, ERCOT shall update, for each of the next six years, the ERCOT Planning Model and post it to the MIS Secure Area
(3)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs and/or Distribution Service Provider (DSPs) and all appropriate Market Participants, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, the transmission model used in transmission planning.  ERCOT shall provide model information through the use of the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) and North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) sponsored CIM and web-based Extensible Markup Language (XML) communications or Power System Simulator for Engineering (PSS/E) format.
(4)	ERCOT shall post the schedule for updating transmission information on the MIS Secure Area.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(4)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs and/or Distribution Service Providers (DSPs) the schedule for updating transmission information.
(5)	ERCOT shall coordinate updates to the Annual Planning Model with the Network Operations Model to ensure consistency of data within and between the Annual Planning Model and Network Operations Model to the extent practicable.
3.10.3	CRR Network Model
(1)	ERCOT shall develop models for Congestion Revenue Right (CRR) Auctions that contain, as much as practicable, information consistent with the Network Operations Model.  Names of Transmission Elements in the Network Operations Model and the CRR Network Model must be identical for the same physical equipment. 
(2)	ERCOT shall verify that the names of Hub Buses and Electrical Buses used to describe the same device in any Hub are identically named in both the Network Operations Model and the CRR Network Model. 
(3)	Each CRR Network Model must include:
(a)	A system-wide diagram including all modeled Transmission Elements (except those within Private Use Networks) and Resource Nodes;
(b)	Station one-line diagrams for all Settlement Points (indicating the Settlement Point that the Electrical Bus is a part of) and including all Hub Buses used to calculate Hub prices (if applicable), except those within Private Use Networks;
(c)	Generation Resource locations;
[NPRR1246:  Replace item (c) above with the following upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project:]
(c)	Generation Resource and ESR locations;
(d)	Transmission Elements;
(e)	Transmission impedances;
(f)	Transmission ratings, excluding Relay Loadability Ratings;
(g)	Contingency lists;
(h)	Data inputs used in the calculation of Dynamic Ratings, and 
(i)	Other relevant assumptions and inputs used for the CRR Network Model.
(4)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs and/or DSPs and all appropriate Market Participants, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, the CRR Network Model.  ERCOT shall provide model information through the use of the EPRI and NERC-sponsored CIM and web based XML communications or PSS/E format.
3.10.3.1	Process for Managing Network Operations Model Updates for Point of Interconnection Bus Changes, Resource Retirements and Deletion of DC Tie Load Zones 
(1)	Following the permanent change in Point of Interconnection Bus (POIB) of all Resources associated with a Resource Node, ERCOT shall retain the associated Settlement Point in the Network Operations Model at its existing location, an electrically similar location, or until all outstanding CRRs associated with that Settlement Point have expired as determined in accordance with the Other Binding Document, “Procedure for Identifying Resource Nodes.”  Following the retirement of all Resources associated with a Resource Node, ERCOT shall move the Resource Node to a proxy Electrical Bus.  The proxy Electrical Bus will be selected by finding the nearest energized Electrical Bus with the least impedance equipment between the existing Resource Node and the proxy Electrical Bus.  For purposes of the CRR Auction model for calendar periods that are prior to the expiration date of all CRRs associated with the Settlement Point, the Settlement Point will continue to be available as a sink or source for CRR Auction transaction submittals.  For calendar periods that are beyond the expiration date of all CRRs associated with the Settlement Point, the Settlement Point will not be available for transaction submittals in the associated CRR Auctions.  The Settlement Point will be removed from the Network Operations Model once all associated CRRs have expired.
(2)	When a Direct Current Tie (DC Tie) is to be permanently removed from service, ERCOT will delete the associated DC Tie Load Zone from the Network Operations Model after all outstanding CRRs associated with that DC Tie Load Zone have expired.  The DC Tie Load Zone will continue to be available as a sink or source Settlement Point for transaction submittals in CRR Auctions for calendar periods that are prior to the scheduled deletion date of the DC Tie Load Zone; however, the DC Tie Load Zone will no longer be an available Settlement Point for transaction submittals in CRR Auctions for calendar periods that are after the scheduled deletion date of the DC Tie Load Zone.
3.10.4	ERCOT Responsibilities
(1)	ERCOT shall design, install, operate, and maintain its systems and establish applicable related processes to meet the State Estimator Standards for Transmission Elements that under typical system conditions potentially affect the calculation of Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) as described in Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards, and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Standards.  ERCOT shall post all documents relating to the State Estimator Standards on the MIS Secure Area.
[NPRR1240:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation:]
(1)	ERCOT shall design, install, operate, and maintain its systems and establish applicable related processes to meet the State Estimator Standards for Transmission Elements that under typical system conditions potentially affect the calculation of Locational Marginal Prices (LMPs) as described in Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Standards, and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Standards.  ERCOT shall post all documents relating to the State Estimator Standards on the MIS Secure Area, except where otherwise stated in Section 3.10.9.6, Telemetry and State Estimator Performance Monitoring.
(2)	During Real-Time, ERCOT shall calculate LMPs and take remedial actions to ensure that actual flow on a given Transmission Element is less than the Normal Rating and any calculated flow due to a contingency is less than the applicable Emergency Rating and 15-Minute Rating.
(3)	ERCOT shall install Network Operations Model test facilities that will accommodate execution of a test Real-Time sequence and preliminary test LMP calculator to demonstrate the correct operation of new Network Operations Models prior to releasing the model to Market Participants for detail testing and verification.  The Network Operations Model test facilities support power flow and contingency analyses to test the data set representation of a proposed transmission model update and simulate LMP calculations using typical test data.
(4)	ERCOT shall install EMS test and simulation facilities that accommodate execution of the State Estimator and LMP calculator, respectively.  These facilities will be used to conduct tests prior to placing a new model into ERCOT’s production environment to verify the new model’s accuracy.  The EMS test facilities allow a potential model to be tested before replacing the current production environment model.  The EMS test and simulation facilities must perform Real-Time security analysis to test a proposed transmission model before replacing the current production environment model. The EMS State Estimator test facilities must have Real-Time ICCP links to test the state estimation function using actual Real-Time conditions.  The EMS LMP test facilities must accept data uploads from the production environment providing Qualified Scheduling Entity (QSE) Resource offers, and telemetry via ICCP.  If the production data are unavailable, ERCOT may employ a data simulation tool or process to develop test data sets for the LMP test facilities.  For TSPs, ERCOT shall acquire model comparison software that will show all differences between subsequent versions of the Network Operations Model and shall make this information available to TSPs only within one week following test completion.  For non-TSP Market Participants, ERCOT shall post the differences within one week following test completion between subsequent versions of the Redacted Network Operations Model on the MIS Secure Area.  This comparison shall indicate differences in device parameters, missing or new devices, and status changes.
(5)	When implementing Transmission Element changes, ERCOT shall correct errors uncovered during testing that are due to submission of inaccurate information.  Each TSP and Resource Entity shall provide reasonably accurate information at the time of the original submission.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(5)	When implementing Transmission Element changes, ERCOT shall correct errors uncovered during testing that are due to submission of inaccurate information.  Each TSP, DCTO, and Resource Entity shall provide reasonably accurate information at the time of the original submission.  
(6)	ERCOT may update the model on an interim basis, outside of the timeline described in Section 3.10.1, Time Line for Network Operations Model Changes, for the correction of temporary configuration changes in a system restoration situation, such as after a storm, or correction of impedances and ratings.  
(7)	Interim updates to the Network Operations Model caused by unintentional inconsistencies of the model with the physical transmission grid may be made.  If an interim update is implemented, ERCOT shall report changes to the PUCT Staff and the IMM.  ERCOT shall provide Notice via electronic means to all Market Participants and post the Notice on the MIS Secure Area detailing the changed model information and the reason for the interim update within two Business Days following the report to PUCT Staff and the IMM.
(8)	A TSP and Resource Entity, with ERCOT’s assistance, shall validate its portion of the Network Operations Model according to the timeline provided in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall provide TSPs access, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, to an environment of the ERCOT EMS where the Network Operations Model and the results of the Real-Time State Estimator are available for review and analysis within five minutes of the Real-Time solution.  This environment is provided as a tool to TSPs to perform power flow studies, contingency analyses and validation of State Estimator results.  
[NPRR857:  Replace paragraph (8) above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
(8)	TSPs, DCTOs, and Resource Entities, with ERCOT’s assistance, shall validate their portion of the Network Operations Model according to the timeline provided in Section 3.10.1.  ERCOT shall provide TSPs access, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII set forth in Section 1.3, Confidentiality, to an environment of the ERCOT EMS where the Network Operations Model and the results of the Real-Time State Estimator are available for review and analysis within five minutes of the Real-Time solution.  This environment is provided as a tool to TSPs to perform power flow studies, contingency analyses and validation of State Estimator results.  
(9)	ERCOT shall make available to TSPs, consistent with the requirements regarding ECEII, the Network Operations Model used to manage the reliability of the transmission system as well as proposed Network Operations Models to be implemented at a future date.  ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area the Redacted Network Operations Model, consistent with the requirements regarding release of ECEII, as well as proposed Redacted Network Operations Models to be implemented at a future date.  ERCOT shall provide model information through the use of the EPRI and NERC-sponsored CIM and web-based XML communications.
3.10.5	TSP Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP shall design, implement, operate, and maintain its systems to meet the requirements of Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements, for measurements facilitating the observability of the Electrical Buses used for Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  However, there is no obligation to re-construct or retrofit already existing installations except as shown to be needed in order to comply with Section 3.10.7.5 and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements.  
(2)	TSPs shall add telemetry to equipment it owns and directly operates and controls at ERCOT’s request to maintain observability and redundancy requirements as specified herein, and under Section 3.10.7.5.  Nothing in this subsection prohibits a TSP from adding telemetry to equipment it does not own but directly operates and controls.  ERCOT shall request such additions when a lack of data telemetry has caused, or can be demonstrated to result in, inaccuracies between Real-Time measurements and modeling outcomes that could result in incorrect LMP prices or potential reliability problems.
(3)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT planned construction information, including Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) application milestone dates if applicable, all of which shall be updated according to a schedule established by ERCOT.  
(4)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT project status updates of Transmission Facilities that are part of an Reliability Must-Run (RMR) or Must Run Alternative (MRA) exit strategy corresponding to a specific RMR or MRA Agreement that has not been terminated, which shall be updated by the first Business Day of each month, noting any acceleration or delay in planned completion date.
(5)	A QSE must receive approval from a TSP prior to using the TSP’s telemetry as part of a Generation Resource’s Bulk Electric System protection scheme or for generation control.  If a TSP has approved a QSE’s use of the TSP’s telemetry, the TSP shall inform the QSE of any telemetry changes with reasonable notice prior to the change or where prior notice is not possible as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, including discontinuation of the TSP’s provision of such telemetry, and the timeline for the changes.
[NPRR857:  Replace Section 3.10.5 above with the following upon system implementation and satisfying the following conditions: (1) Southern Cross provides ERCOT with funds to cover the entire estimated cost of the project; and (2) Southern Cross has signed an interconnection agreement with a TSP and the TSP gives ERCOT written notice that Southern Cross has provided it with:  (a) Notice to proceed with the construction of the interconnection; and (b) The financial security required to fund the interconnection facilities:]
3.10.5	TSP and DCTO Responsibilities
(1)	Each TSP and DCTO shall design, implement, operate, and maintain its systems to meet the requirements of Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements, for measurements facilitating the observability of the Electrical Buses used for Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED).  However, there is no obligation to re-construct or retrofit already existing installations except as shown to be needed in order to comply with Section 3.10.7.5 and Section 3.10.9, State Estimator Requirements.  
(2)	Each TSP and DCTO shall add telemetry to equipment it owns and directly operates and controls at ERCOT’s request to maintain observability and redundancy requirements as specified herein, and under Section 3.10.7.5.  Nothing in this subsection prohibits a TSP from adding telemetry to equipment it does not own but directly operates and controls.  ERCOT shall request such additions when a lack of data telemetry has caused, or can be demonstrated to result in, inaccuracies between Real-Time measurements and modeling outcomes that could result in incorrect LMP prices or potential reliability problems.
(3)	Each TSP and DCTO shall provide to ERCOT planned construction information, including Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) application milestone dates if applicable, all of which shall be updated according to a schedule established by ERCOT.  
(4)	Each TSP shall provide to ERCOT project status updates of Transmission Facilities that are part of an Reliability Must-Run (RMR) or Must Run Alternative (MRA) exit strategy corresponding to a specific RMR or MRA Agreement that has not been terminated, which shall be updated by the first Business Day of each month, noting any acceleration or delay in planned completion date.
(5)	A QSE must receive approval from a TSP prior to using the TSP’s telemetry as part of a Generation Resource’s Bulk Electric System protection scheme or for generation control.  If a TSP has approved a QSE’s use of the TSP’s telemetry, the TSP shall inform the QSE of any telemetry changes with reasonable notice prior to the change or where prior notice is not possible as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, including discontinuation of the TSP’s provision of such telemetry, and the timeline for the changes.
3.10.6	QSE and Resource Entity Responsibilities
(1)	Resource Entities shall provide Resource Registration data pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, to ERCOT and to TSPs upon request.  The Resource Registration data will contain information describing each Generation Resource, SOG, and Load Resource that it represents under Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads.
[NPRR995 and NPRR1246:  Replace applicable portions of paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation for NPRR995; or upon system implementation of the Real-Time Co-Optimization (RTC) project for NPRR1246:]
(1)	Resource Entities shall provide Resource Registration data pursuant to Planning Guide Section 6.8.2, Resource Registration Process, to ERCOT and to TSPs upon request.  The Resource Registration data will contain information describing each Generation Resource, ESR, SOG, SOESS, and Load Resource that it represents under Section 3.10.7.2, Modeling of Resources and Transmission Loads.
(2)	QSEs shall ensure availability of telemetry to generation and transmission equipment its Resource Entity owns at ERCOT’s request to maintain observability and redundancy requirements as specified herein, and under Section 3.10.7.5, Telemetry Requirements.  ERCOT shall request such additions when a lack of data telemetry has caused, or can be demonstrated to result in, inaccuracies between Real-Time measurements and modeling outcomes that could result in incorrect LMP prices or potential reliability problems.
(3) 	For each Generation Resource and Energy Storage Resource (ESR), Resource Entities shall provide ERCOT the following temperature data: 
(a) 	Cold weather temperature limits:
(i) 	Minimum historical ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource has operated without a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure due to cold weather after at least one complete winter Peak Load Season following the Resource’s Initial Synchronization date based on the previous five calendar years of historical data; and
(ii) 	Minimum historical ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource has operated without experiencing a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its winter Seasonal net maximum rating due to cold weather after at least one complete winter Peak Load Season following the Resource’s Initial Synchronization date based on the previous five calendar years of historical data; and
(iii)  	At least one of the following:
(A)	Minimum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource was designed to operate without a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its winter Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating; or 
(B)	Minimum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource can operate without a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its winter Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating determined by an engineering analysis; and
(iv)  	At least one of the following: 
(A) 	Minimum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource was designed to operate without a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure; or
(B)	Minimum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource can operate without a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure determined by an engineering analysis.
(b) 	Hot weather temperature limits:
(i)	Maximum historical ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource has operated without experiencing a Forced Outage or Startup Loading Failure due to hot weather after at least one complete summer Peak Load Season following the Resource’s Initial Synchronization date based on the previous five years of historical data; and
(ii)	Maximum historical ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource has operated without experiencing a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its summer Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating due to hot weather after at least one complete summer Peak Load Season following the Resource’s Initial Synchronization date based on the previous five calendar years of historical data; and 
(iii)	At least one of the following: 
(A)	Maximum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource was designed to operate without a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its summer Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating; or 
(B)	Maximum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which the Resource can operate without a Forced Derate greater than 10 MW and 5% of its summer Seasonal net maximum sustainable rating, determined by an engineering analysis; and
(iv)	At least one of the following:
(A)	Maximum ambient dry bulb temperature in degrees Fahrenheit 