rom ERCOT, Transmission Service Providers (TSPs), Texas Reliability Entity (Texas RE), and Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT).
Each NERC Transmission Planner within the ERCOT footprint and each ERCOT TSP with an assigned area in the Steady State Working Group (SSWG) and DWG base cases, shall have at least one designated DWG member.  The designated DWG member(s) shall be an employee(s) of an ERCOT Registered TSP. A Designated Agent that is not a DWG member may represent a DWG member.  Designated Agents are permitted on the DWG email exploder list at the discretion of the sponsoring DWG member under the stipulation that a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) is in place with the sponsoring DWG member and proper notification has been provided to ERCOT. It is the responsibility of the sponsoring DWG member to inform ERCOT of Designated Agents acting on their behalf. It is also the responsibility of the sponsoring DWG member to inform ERCOT of Designated Agents that no longer represent them and to have them removed from the email exploder list. The DWG will review the participating Designated Agents annually.
DWG members and any Designated Agents shall be identified in the DWG roster, and the roster will be updated as needed by the DWG.  The DWG shall notify ROS (in the monthly report) of any TSPs that are required to have a designated DWG member but do not have a DWG representative identified on the DWG roster.

The DWG will nominate a chair and vice-chair to be approved by the ROS annually.

	Duties of Chair and Vice-Chair
The chair will coordinate the activities of the DWG and represent the DWG at the ROS meetings and other working group meetings as required.
The vice chair will support the chair and fulfill the duties of the chair in the absence of the chair.  
	Meetings
The DWG will meet at least quarterly. DWG meetings are closed meetings. DWG members and Designated Agents of DWG members may attend. If a Designated Agent is not on the DWG roster, the sponsoring DWG member shall inform ERCOT and the DWG chair and vice chair of the name of the Designated Agent attending one week prior to the meeting. 
The chair may coordinate additional meetings, including open meetings, as needed to facilitate the activities of the DWG. Non-DWG members may participate in DWG meetings including open portion of the meeting for specific purposes (e.g. a technical presentation or discussion).  Any such participation should be approved by the chair, limited to the specific purpose, announced in the meeting agenda, and recorded in the meeting minutes.  The vice chair will track attendance and document meeting minutes for in-person meetings.  
Agendas and meeting schedules should be published at least two weeks prior to the meeting. The minutes of each meeting will be distributed to DWG members.
	Reports to ROS
Each month, the DWG chair will provide a written report to the ROS if needed.
	Dynamic Data Sharing Rules
Dynamic data and dynamic study cases are considered confidential and protected information pursuant to Nodal Protocol Section 1.3, Confidentiality.  They shall be provided to the DWG members only.


 
Dynamic Data

	General
Dynamic data is the network data, mathematical models, and supporting information required for simulation of dynamic and transient events in the ERCOT System.     
	Software
The current planning model software is PSS/E version 35 and PSCAD version 4.5 or higher.  During years where a PSS/E version change is being conducted, the previous PSS/E version user defined models shall also be provided until a full transition is completed.  The current operations model software is Powertech DSATools™ Transient Security Assessment Tool (TSAT) version 22.
	Dynamic Models – General
Dynamic models compatible with the software(s) and version(s) listed in Section 3.1.1 shall be submitted to both ERCOT and the interconnecting TSP.  In addition to the requirements described in the Planning Guide Section 6.2, Dynamics Model Development, providers of dynamic models shall also adhere to the following requirements:
	Each dynamic device requires a model with model parameters that accurately represent the dynamics of the device over the entire range of operating conditions.
	Static switchable devices part of Inverter-Based Resource (IBR ) facilities (such as on-load tap changing transformers (OLTC) and switchable reactive shunts) should include an initialization script or logic to correctly initialize for the POI initial conditions of the power flow case the model is integrated in (for example, a Python file for PSS/e and initialization logic for PSCAD), and should include switching control logic if the device is expected to switch within 45 seconds of a disturbance .
	PSCAD models shall be submitted to ERCOT for all IBRs, Wind-powered Generation Resources (WGRs), and inverter-based transmission elements (IBTEs)  installed on or after January 2015; for equipment installed before 2015 PSCAD models shall be submitted to ERCOT upon request.  For purposes of this manual, IBTEs includes STATCOMs, static VAR compensators (SVCs), and other transmission devices with power electronic grid interfaces.
	Where multiple models are provided (e.g. PSS/E, TSAT, PSCAD), the model response shall be consistent across software platforms to the extent of platform capability.
	Dynamic models shall utilize proper memory management within the software.  Data must only be written to allocated memory locations so that other models within the system are not affected.
	All associated per unit dynamic model parameters for a given generating unit shall be provided using a base MVA (MBASE) in accordance with appropriate modeling techniques for the software platform, where the MBASE is typically the generator MVA rating.
	No model shall restrict the DWG from using any integration time-step less than or equal to a ¼ cycle in simulations when using positive sequence simulation tools.
	No model in the DWG’s Unacceptable Model List shall be used. Refer to Section 3.1.10.
	Standard Dynamic Models
The use of standard dynamic models provided by the software is preferred when they can accurately represent the dynamic performance of the device being modeled. 
	User-Written Dynamic Models
A user written model is any model that is not a standard library model within the software(s) and version(s) listed in Section 3.1.1.  When no compatible standard dynamic model(s) provided within the software can be used to represent the dynamics of a device, accurate and appropriate user written models can be used, if accepted by ERCOT and the DWG after being tested for compatibility with the flat start cases.  A model guideline checksheet is provided by ERCOT for PSS/E, TSAT and PSCAD models to help determine compatibility ; this checksheet shall be completed and submitted along w