source: reactive machine impedance that is required to match the subtransient reactance specified in the dynamic generator model for proper initialization of dynamic simulations.
ERCOT shall compile the list of data changes following finalization of the flat start DWG shall coordinate with SSWG to assure that conflicting data is corrected during future SSWG case building activities. 
	DWG Dynamic Contingency Assumptions List
The DWG shall construct a dynamic contingency assumptions list detailing contingency assumptions for each TSP for the purpose of screening studies conducted by ERCOT and the DWG members. ERCOT and the DWG members shall annually review and update the dynamic contingency assumption list. Upon completion of the annual review, ERCOT shall collect the contingency assumptions and submit the finalized dynamic contingency assumptions list to the DWG.

The assumptions shall include:
	Breaker trip time for normal clearing, 
	Breaker trip time for delayed clearing due to stuck breaker
	Breaker trip time for delayed clearing due to relay failure
	Relay characteristic assumptions to assess generic apparent impedance swings that can trip any transmission system elements
	Other assumptions deemed necessary by DWG as specified during the annual review
	DWG Dynamic Contingency Database
The DWG shall prepare a Dynamic Contingency Database according to a standard spreadsheet format.  The spreadsheet format will be reviewed annually. In addition to the spreadsheet, DWG members can also provide their contingencies in python format if the spreadsheet is inadequate to accurately represent the contingencies (ex. contingencies based on detailed expansion of the station into node breaker). The dynamic contingency database and any additional contingencies provided in python will be posted on the ERCOT Market Information System (MIS) so that it is accessible to all DWG members and to ERCOT.
	Other DWG Activities 
	Event Simulation
ERCOT will compare dynamic system model performance to that of actual system response data in accordance with NERC MOD-033.  For a selected event, the affected TSP will provide actual measured system behavior data (or a written response that it does not have the requested data) to ERCOT within 30 calendar days of a written request.
	Procedure Manual Revision Guidelines
The DWG is responsible for maintaining and updating this Procedure Manual.  Revisions, additions and/or deletions to this Procedure Manual may be undertaken at such times that the DWG feels it is necessary due to changes in dynamic simulation software or to meet new and/or revised requirements of NERC, ERCOT, or any other organization having oversight or regulatory authority.
At least annually, the DWG chair shall request a thorough review of the current Procedure Manual for any needed revisions.  The notification will request that proposed revisions be submitted to the DWG chair (or the chair’s designate) for consolidation and distribution to all DWG members for comment and/or additional revision.
The DWG chair may seek approval of any revision, addition, or deletion to the Procedure Manual in the regular DWG meetings, or called special meeting as deemed necessary or requested by DWG membership.
All proposed Procedure Manual revisions shall be submitted to ROS for approval.  After ROS approval, the Procedure Manual will be publicly posted on the DWG webpage: https://www.ercot.com/committees/ros/dwg.
	Recommended DWG Study Methodologies 
Note: This section addresses, in part, requirements R4, R5 and R6 of NERC Standard TPL-001-4 and TPL-001-5.1 (effective July 1, 2023).
Voltage stability margin, transient voltage criteria, and damping criteria are described in the ERCOT Planning Guide Section 4.  
	Voltage Instability Identification in Stability Studies
Voltage Instability is indicated by severely low bus voltage or bus voltage collapse. 
Voltage Instability could cause: 
	Motor stalling leading to significant amount of customer initiated motor tripping.
	Loss of generator(s) due to low voltage 
	Voltage collapse of an area
	Cascading Identification in Stability Studies
Cascading Definition - Cascading is defined as the uncontrolled loss of any system facilities or load, whether because of thermal overload, voltage collapse, or loss of synchronism, except those occurring as a result of fault isolation. Cascading is indicated by one or more of the following conditions:
	Uncontrolled sequential loss of generators
	Uncontrolled sequential loss of load
	Uncontrolled sequential loss of branches. 
Cascading could cause conditions like:
	Voltage collapse of an area
	Expanding number of buses with voltage instability
	System islanding, frequency instability due to power-load unbalance
NERC Definition: The uncontrolled successive loss of system elements triggered by an incident at any location. Cascading results in widespread electric service interruption that cannot be restrained from sequentially spreading beyond an area predetermined by studies. 
	Uncontrolled Islanding Identification in Stability Studies
Uncontrolled islanding is the separation and loss of synchronism between a portion of the interconnection and the remaining interconnected system.  Islanding originates with uncontrolled loss of branches, ending with the formation of sub-network islands.  
Generators disconnected from the System by fault clearing action or by a RAS are not considered out of synchronism.  Similarly, islands formed from being disconnected from the System by fault clearing action or by a RAS are not considered an uncontrolled island.
Sub-network islands have the following characteristics:
	The sub-network islands have both generation and load to support the continuation of the island.  
	The sub-networks formed are not connected to each other.
Uncontrolled islanding in a screening study could cause: 
	Out-of-step generators  
	Off-nominal frequency disturbances 
	Eventual collapse of an island due to frequency or voltage instabilities caused by the generation-load unbalance in the sub-network island.
	Generator Protection Assumptions
Note: This section addresses, in part, requirements R3.3.1.1 and R4.3.1.2 of NERC Standard TPL-001-4 and TPL-001-5.1 (effective July 1, 2023).

If dynamic models are not provided for Generator protection schemes, generic generator protection may be assumed for screening purposes 
	For synchronous generators, a rotor angle swing greater than 180 degrees may be considered an unstable generator.  
	Generators may be assumed to be compliant with the minimum requirements of Section 2.9 Voltage Ride-Through Requirements for Generation Resources of the ERCOT Nodal Operating Guide.
	Generators may be assumed to be compliant with the minimum requirements of Section 2.6 Requirements for Under/Over-Frequency Relaying of the ERCOT Nodal Operating Guide.

