hich DWG has a technical justification not to adopt.  
	Unacceptable models that already exist in the ERCOT dynamic dataset shall be phased out through dynamic model updates including updates received via the NERC MOD-026-1 and MOD-027-1 processes.
	If a generation interconnection or dynamic model update has begun prior to a model being identified as unacceptable by NERC, the model may be allowed. 
	The list of acceptable/unacceptable dynamic models are published on the NERC website. 

	Dynamic Data for Equipment Owned by Resource Entities (REs)
	Dynamic Data Requirements for New Equipment
Note: This section addresses the requirements stated in R1 of NERC Standard MOD-032-1 (effective July 1, 2015).
REs are responsible for providing models with model parameters resulting in a tuned model that represents the dynamic performance of the device. Final responsibility for the submission and the accuracy of the dynamic data lies on the RE. ERCOT and the DWG will provide voluntary assistance if requested by REs to complete parameter tuning and prepare model records. The DWG member representing the TSP to which the RE is connected is responsible for working with ERCOT to incorporate the dynamic data received from the RE into the DWG Flat Start cases (.dyr file) during annual updates.
The RE shall fulfill its interconnection data requirement by including acceptable dynamic data and models for their facilities.  The RE may have additional model and data reporting obligations to ensure compliance with NERC reliability standards and/or other requirements.
The following two subsections describe data requirements for two distinct categories of generation facilities:
	Synchronous Generation Facilities:
	The model data shall include, at minimum, a generator model, a governor model, an exciter model, and if applicable, a power system stabilizer model and an excitation limiter model.
	Explicit frequency protection relay models shall be provided for all generators where relays are set to trip the generating unit within the “no trip zone” of NERC Standard PRC-024 Attachment 1. 
	Explicit voltage protection relay models shall be provided for all generators where relays are set to trip the generating unit within the “no trip zone” of NERC Standard PRC-024 Attachment 2.
	 A governor model is not required for the steam turbine(s) of combined cycle plants.
	IBRs, and WGRs:
The RE shall provide the following data as applicable to the generator technology:
	Model, data and description of voltage control method.
	Model, data and description of how they will meet ERCOT reactive requirements.
	A one-line diagram of the proposed facility.
	Data for all transformers. The data should include:
	MVA rating.
	High and low-side rated voltage.
	Number of taps, and step size.
	Impedance, including base values if different from rated values listed above. 
	Dynamic modeling data including:
	Wind generator or solar inverter manufacturer and type.
	Rated voltage.
	Rated MVA.
	Reactive capability, leading and lagging.
	Rated MW output.
	Net MW output.
	Transient or subtransient reactance, including base values, if applicable.
	Transient or subtransient time constant, if applicable.
	Total inertia constant, H, of generator, including the shaft and gearbox, if applicable.
	Number of machines by manufacturer types.
	Reactive resource data such as capacitor banks, STATCOMS, etc. Provide the number of devices, location of the devices, step size, speed of switching, location where voltage is monitored and controlled, control strategy, and voltage limits. For dynamic reactive devices, provide the appropriate model and data.
	Line data from the POI to each generator shall include: 
	Line type (overhead or underground)
	Line length 
	Line resistance in ohms/1000 ft
	Line reactance in ohms/1000 ft
	Line susceptance in mhos/1000 ft
	Wind turbine models shall account for rotor mass, aerodynamic energy conversion, and pitch control.
	Explicit frequency protection relay models shall be provided for all facilities where relays are set to trip the resource within the “no trip zone” of NERC Standard PRC-024 Attachment 1.
	Explicit voltage protection relay models shall be provided for all facilities where relays are set to trip the resource within the “no trip zone” of NERC Standard PRC-024 Attachment 2.

	Updates to Existing Dynamic Data
The RE shall submit dynamic model updates to ERCOT and the TSP to which they are connected within 30 days of any facility change and/or test result that necessitates a model update to accurately reflect dynamic performance.  The data requirements specified in section 3.2.1 for new equipment also apply to all submitted model updates.  Obsolete data should be deleted or commented out as appropriate in the dynamic data.
	Data for Load Resource
ERCOT will prepare the dynamic model using a standard model for Load Resource that is qualified to provide Responsive Reserve (RRS) through under frequency relay models.  Data for the Load Resource model shall be documented in the Stability Book. 
	Dynamic Data for Equipment Owned by Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) or Other Equipment Owners
	Under Frequency Firm Load Shedding (UFLS) Relay Data 
UFLS data shall be prepared annually in accordance with ERCOT and NERC standards. TSPs are responsible for preparing the UFLS relay model records for their respective loads.  The TSP shall submit the UFLS relay data to ERCOT in the form of a data file using an appropriate model compatible with the software listed in Section 3.1.1. The models should contain the necessary information to properly represent the UFLS relay actions in a dynamic study, including:
	Location (bus number and/or load ID) of load to be interrupted.
	Fraction of load to be interrupted.
	Corresponding frequency set points.
	Overall scheme clearing times (including all time delays, breaker clearing times, etc.)
Also, the TSP should indicate any other schemes that are part of or impact the UFLS programs such as related generation protection, islanding schemes, automatic load restoration schemes, automatic capacitor/reactor switching, and Remedial Action Scheme (RAS).  
All UFLS data will be documented in the annual Stability Book. 
	Under Voltage Load Shedding (UVLS) Relay Data
An ERCOT TSP which has UVLS relays in its service area designed to mitigate under voltage conditions potentially impacting the system reliability is to establish and maintain a UVLS Program consistent with NERC Standards.
The TSP owning an UVLS Program will submit the corresponding relay model to ERCOT during the annual Stability Book update. The DWG member shall submit the UVLS relay data in the form of a data file using an appropriate model compatible with the software listed in Section 3.1.1.
It is the responsibility of the TSP to ensure the UVLS program model 