ERCOT Planning Guide
Table of Contents
June 1, 2023
1	Overview	1-1
1.1	Purpose	1
1.2	Process for Planning Guide Revision	1
1.2.1	Introduction	1
1.2.2	Submission of a Planning Guide Revision Request	2
1.2.3	Planning Guide Revision Procedure	3
1.2.3.1	Review and Posting of Planning Guide Revision Requests	3
1.2.3.2	Withdrawal of aPlanning Guide Revision Request	4
1.2.3.3	ROS Review and Action	4
1.2.3.4	Comments to the ROS Report	5
1.2.3.5	Planning Guide Revision Request Impact Analysis	5
1.2.3.6	ROS Review of Impact Analysis	6
1.2.3.7	Wholesale Market Subcommittee Review	6
1.2.3.8	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report	7
1.2.3.9	PRS Review of Project Prioritization	7
1.2.3.10	Technical Advisory Committee Vote	7
1.2.3.11	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report	8
1.2.3.12	ERCOT Board Vote	8
1.2.3.13	PUCT Approval of Revision Requests	9
1.2.3.14	Appeal of Action	9
1.2.5	Urgent Requests	10
1.2.6	Planning Guide Revision Implementation	11
2	Definitions and Acronyms	2-1
2.1	Definitions	1
2.2 	Acronyms	4
3	Regional Planning	3-1
3.1	Communications	1
3.1.1	Overview of Major Transmission Planning Activities	1
3.1.1.1	Long-Term System Assessment	1
3.1.1.2	Regional Transmission Plan	1
3.1.1.3	Regional Planning Group Project Reviews	2
3.1.1.4	Generation Interconnection Process	2
3.1.1.5	Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Vulnerability Assessment	3
3.1.2	Regional Planning Group Project Submission	3
3.1.2.1	All Projects	3
3.1.3	Project Evaluation	4
3.1.3.1	Definitions of Reliability-Driven and Economic-Driven Projects	5
3.1.3.2	Reliability-Driven Project Evaluation	6
3.1.4	Regional Transmission Plan Development Process	6
3.1.4.1	Development of Regional Transmission Plan	6
3.1.4.1.1	Regional Transmission Plan Cases	7
3.1.4.2	Use of Regional Transmission Plan	7
3.1.5	Regional Planning Group Comment Process	8
3.1.6	Notify PUCT of Recommended Transmission Projects	9
3.1.7	Steady State Transmission Planning Load Forecast	9
3.1.8	Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities	10
3.1.9	Transmission Interconnection Study	12
4	Transmission Planning Criteria	4-1
4.1	Introduction	1
4.1.1	Reliability Criteria	2
4.1.1.1	Planning Assumptions	2
4.1.1.2	Reliability Performance Criteria	2
4.1.1.3	Voltage Stability Margin	5
4.1.1.4	Steady State Voltage Response Criteria	5
4.1.1.5	Transient Voltage Response Criteria	6
4.1.1.6	Damping Criteria	6
4.1.1.7	Minimum Deliverability Criteria	6
4.1.1.8	Maintenance Outage Reliability Criteria	6

5	Generator Interconnection or Modification	5-1
5.1	Introduction	1
5.2	General Provisions	1
5.2.1	Applicability	1
5.2.2	Initiation of Generator Interconnection or Modification	3
5.2.3	Confidentiality	5
5.2.4	Duty to Update Project Information and Respond to ERCOT and TDSP Requests for Information	5
5.2.5	Inactive Status	7
5.2.6	Project Cancellation Due to Failure to Comply with Requirements	8
5.2.7	Voluntary Project Cancellation	9
5.2.8	Interconnection Agreements and Procedures	9
5.2.8.1	Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement for Transmission-Connected Generators	9
5.2.8.2	Interconnection Agreement for Distribution-Connected Generators	10
5.2.8.3	Provisions for Municipally Owned Utilities and Cooperatives	10
5.3	Interconnection and Study Procedures for Large Generators	11
5.3.1	Security Screening Study	11
5.3.2	Full Interconnection Study	13
5.3.2.1	Proof of Site Control	14
5.3.2.2	Full Interconnection Study Scoping Process	15
5.3.2.3	Full Interconnection Study Description and Methodology	17
5.3.2.4	Full Interconnection Study Elements	17
5.3.2.4.1	Steady-State Analysis	17
5.3.2.4.2	System Protection (Short-Circuit) Analysis	18
5.3.2.4.3	Dynamic and Transient Stability (Unit Stability, Voltage) Analysis	18
5.3.2.4.4	Facility Study	20
5.3.2.5	FIS Report and Follow-up	20
5.3.3	ERCOT Economic Study	22
5.3.4	Reactive Study	22
5.3.5	ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment	23
5.4	Interconnection Procedures for Small Generators	25
5.4.1	Small Generator Review Meetings	25
5.4.2	Submission of Interconnection Agreement and TSP and/or DSP Studies and Technical Requirements	25
5.4.3	Reviews and Approval to Submit Model Information	25
5.4.4	Transmission System Reliability Impact	26
5.5	Generator Commissioning and Continuing Operations	26
6	Data/Modeling	6-1
6.1	Steady-State Model Development	1
6.2	Dynamics Model Development	3
6.2.1	Dynamics Data Requirements for Generation Resources and Settlement Only Generators	6
6.2.2	Dynamics Data Requirements for Load Resources	7
6.2.3	Dynamics Data Requirements for and Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers	7
6.2.4 	Dynamics Data Screening and Maintenance	8
6.3	Process for Developing Short Circuit Cases	8
6.4	Transmission Project Information and Tracking Report and Data Requirements	9
6.4.1	Transmission Project Information and Tracking Report	9
6.4.2	ERCOT Responsibilities	10
6.4.3	TSP Responsibilities	10
6.4.4 	Regional Transmission Plan Projects in Transmission Project Information and Tracking Report	10
6.4.5	Content of the Transmission Project Information and Tracking Report	10
6.5	Annual Load Data Request	11
6.6	Intentionally Left Blank	12
6.7	Data Dictionary	12
6.8	Resource Registration Procedures	13
6.8.1	Resource Registration	13
6.8.2	Resource Registration Process	13
6.9	Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models	14
6.10	Contingency Filing Requirements	16
6.11	Process for Developing Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) System Models	17
6.12	Addition of a Proposed DC Tie to the Planning Models	18
7	Market Data Transparency	7-1
7.1	Planning Data and Information	1
8	Attachments	8-1
Declaration of Resource Data Accuracy	8(A)
Declaration of Adequate Water Supplies	8(B)
Declaration of Department of Defense Notification	8(C)
Attestation Regarding Compliance with the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act	8(D)
9	RESERVED	9-1
ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 1:  Overview
June 1, 2023
1	OVERVIEW	1
1.1	PURPOSE	1
1.2	PROCESS FOR PLANNING GUIDE REVISION	1
1.2.1	Introduction	1
1.2.2	Submission of a Planning Guide Revision Request	2
1.2.3	Planning Guide Revision Procedure	3
1.2.3.1	Review and Posting of Planning Guide Revision Requests	3
1.2.3.2	Withdrawal of a Planning Guide Revision Request	4
1.2.3.3	ROS Review and Action	4
1.2.3.4	Comments to the ROS Report	5
1.2.3.5	Planning Guide Revision Request Impact Analysis	5
1.2.3.6	ROS Review of Impact Analysis	6
1.2.3.7	Wholesale Market Subcommittee Review	6
1.2.3.8	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report	7
1.2.3.9	PRS Review of Project Prioritization	7
1.2.3.10	Technical Advisory Committee Vote	7
1.2.3.11	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report	8
1.2.3.12	ERCOT Board Vote	8
1.2.3.13	PUCT Approval of Revision Requests	9
1.2.3.14	Appeal of Action	9
1.2.4	Urgent Requests	10
1.2.5	Planning Guide Revision Implementation	11
1	OVERVIEW
1.1	Purpose
(1)	This Planning Guide is consistent with applicable planning-related requirements of the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules, Protocols and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards. 
(2)	This Planning Guide provides more detail of and establishes planning requirements for organizations and Entities operating in or potentially impacting the reliability of the ERCOT System.  These organizations and Entities shall comply with the requirements set forth in this Planning Guide. 
(3)	In the event of a conflict between the Planning Guide and Protocols, any PUCT Substantive Rules or the NERC Reliability Standards, then such PUCT Substantive Rules, NERC Reliability Standards, and the Protocols shall control. 
(4)	For application in the ERCOT Region, some NERC Reliability Standards must be adapted to fit the unique characteristics of ERCOT.  Defined terminology for NERC Regional Variances, if any, is detailed in the NERC Reliability Standards.	
1.2	Process for Planning Guide Revision
1.2.1	Introduction
(1)	A request to make additions, edits, deletions, revisions, or clarifications to this Planning Guide, including any attachments and exhibits to this Planning Guide, is called a Planning Guide Revision Request (PGRR).  Except as specifically provided in other sections of this Planning Guide, this Section 1.2, Process for Planning Guide Revision, shall be followed for all PGRRs.  ERCOT Members, Market Participants, Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the Independent Market Monitor (IMM), the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Regional Entity, ERCOT, and any other Entities are required to utilize the process described herein prior to requesting, through the PUCT or other Governmental Authority, that ERCOT make a change to this Planning Guide, except for good cause shown to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority.
(2)	The “next regularly scheduled meeting” of the Reliability and Operations Subcommittee (ROS), the Wholesale Market Subcommittee (WMS), the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), the ERCOT Board or the PUCT, shall mean the next regularly scheduled meeting for which required Notice can be timely given regarding the item(s) to be addressed, as specified in the appropriate PUCT, ERCOT Board or committee procedures.
(3)	The ROS shall ensure that the Planning Guides are compliant with the ERCOT Protocols.  As such, the ROS will monitor all changes to the ERCOT Protocols and initiate any PGRRs necessary to bring the Planning Guides in conformance with the ERCOT Protocols.  The ROS will also initiate a Nodal Protocol Revision Request (NPRR) if such a change is necessary to accommodate a proposed PGRR prior to proceeding with that PGRR.
(4)	Throughout the Planning Guide, references are made to the ERCOT Protocols.  ERCOT Protocols supersede the Planning Guide and any PGRR must be compliant with the Protocols.  The ERCOT Protocols are subject to the revision process outlined in Protocol Section 21, Revision Request Process.
(5)	ERCOT may make non-substantive corrections at any time during the processing of a particular PGRR.  Under certain circumstances, however, the Planning Guide can also be revised by ERCOT rather than using the PGRR process outlined in Section 1.2.
(a)	This type of revision is referred to as an “Administrative PGRR” or “Administrative Changes” and shall consist of non-substantive corrections, such as typos (excluding grammatical changes), internal references (including table of contents), improper use of acronyms, references to ERCOT Protocols, PUCT Substantive Rules, the Public Utility Regulatory Act (PURA), NERC regulations, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) rules, etc., and revisions for the purpose of maintaining consistency between Section 1.2 and Protocol Section 21. 
(b)	ERCOT shall post such Administrative PGRRs to the ERCOT website and distribute the PGRR to ROS.  If no Entity submits comments to the Administrative PGRR within ten Business Days in accordance with paragraph (1) of Section 1.2.3.3, ROS Review and Action, the Administrative PGRR shall be subject to PUCT approval.  Following PUCT approval, ERCOT shall implement the Administrative PGRR according to paragraph (3) of Section 1.2.5, Planning Guide Revision Implementation.  If any Entity submits comments to the Administrative PGRR, then it shall be processed in accordance with the PGRR process outlined in Section 1.2.
1.2.2	Submission of a Planning Guide Revision Request
(1)	The following Entities may submit a PGRR:
(a)	Any Market Participant;
(b)	Any ERCOT Member;
(c)	PUCT Staff;
(d)	Reliability Monitor Staff;
(e)	NERC Regional Entity Staff; 
(f) 	The IMM;
(g)	ERCOT; and 
(h)	Any other Entity that meets the following qualifications:
(i)	Resides (or represent residents) in Texas or operates in the Texas electricity market; and
(ii)	Demonstrates that Entity (or those it represents) is affected by the Customer Registration or Renewable Energy Credit (REC) Trading Program sections of the ERCOT Protocols.
1.2.3	Planning Guide Revision Procedure
1.2.3.1	Review and Posting of Planning Guide Revision Requests
(1)	PGRRs shall be submitted electronically to ERCOT by completing the designated form provided on the ERCOT website.  Excluding ERCOT-sponsored PGRRs, ERCOT shall provide an electronic return receipt response to the submitter upon receipt of the PGRR.
(2)	The PGRR shall include the following information:
(a)	Description of requested revision and reason for suggested change;
(b)	Impacts and benefits of the suggested change on ERCOT market structure, ERCOT operations, and Market Participants, to the extent that the submitter may know this information;
(c)	List of affected Planning Guide sections and subsections;
(d)	General administrative information (organization, contact name, etc.); and
(e)	Suggested language for requested revision.
(3)	ERCOT shall evaluate the PGRR for completeness and shall notify the submitter, within five Business Days of receipt, if the PGRR is incomplete, including the reasons for such status.  ERCOT may provide information to the submitter that will correct the PGRR and render it complete.  An incomplete PGRR shall not receive further consideration until it is completed.  In order to pursue the PGRR, a submitter must submit a completed version of the PGRR.
(4)	If a submitted PGRR is complete or upon completion of a PGRR, ERCOT shall post the PGRR on the ERCOT website and distribute to ROS within three Business Days.
(5)	For any ERCOT-sponsored PGRR, ERCOT shall also post an initial Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website, and distribute it to ROS.  The initial Impact Analysis will provide ROS with guidance as to potential ERCOT computer systems, operations, or business functions that could be affected by the submitted PGRR.
1.2.3.2	Withdrawal of a Planning Guide Revision Request
(1)	A submitter may withdraw or request to withdraw a PGRR by submitting a completed Request for Withdrawal form provided on the ERCOT website.  ERCOT shall post the submitter’s Request for Withdrawal on the ERCOT website within three Business Days of submittal.
(2)	The submitter of a PGRR may withdraw the PGRR at any time before ROS recommends approval of the PGRR.  
(3)	If ROS has recommended approval of the PGRR, the Request for Withdrawal must be approved by the TAC if the PGRR has not yet been recommended for approval by TAC.
(4)	If TAC has recommended approval of the PGRR, the Request for Withdrawal must be approved by the ERCOT Board if the PGRR has not yet been recommended for approval by the ERCOT Board.
(5)	Once recommended for approval by the ERCOT Board, a PGRR cannot be withdrawn.
1.2.3.3	ROS Review and Action
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, Reliability Monitor Staff, NERC Regional Entity Staff, the IMM Staff, or ERCOT may comment on the PGRR.
(2)	To receive consideration, comments must be delivered electronically to ERCOT in the designated format provided on the ERCOT website within 14 days from the posting date of the PGRR.  Comments submitted after the 14 day comment period may be considered at the discretion of ROS after these comments have been posted.  Comments submitted in accordance with the instructions on the ERCOT website, regardless of date of submission, shall be posted on the ERCOT website and distributed to the ROS within three Business Days of submittal.
(3)	The ROS shall consider the PGRR at its next regularly scheduled meeting after the end of the 14 day comment period.  The quorum and voting requirements for ROS action are set forth in the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures.  At such meeting, the ROS shall take action on the PGRR.  In considering action on a PGRR, the ROS shall:
(a)	Recommend approval of the PGRR as submitted or as modified;
(b)	Reject the PGRR;
(c)	Table the PGRR; or
(d)	Refer the PGRR to another ROS working group or task force, or another TAC subcommittee with instructions.
(4)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a PGRR and that motion fails, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by ROS unless at the same meeting ROS later votes to recommend approval of, table, or refer the PGRR.  If a motion to recommend approval of a PGRR fails via e-mail vote according to the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by the ROS unless at the next regularly scheduled ROS meeting or in a subsequent e-mail vote prior to such meeting, ROS votes to recommend approval of, table, or refer the PGRR.  The rejected PGRR shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 1.2.3.14, Appeal of Action.
(5)	Within three Business Days after ROS takes action, ERCOT shall post an ROS Report reflecting the ROS action on the ERCOT website.  The ROS Report shall contain the following items:
(a)	Identification of submitter of the PGRR
(b)	Planning Guide language recommended by the ROS, if applicable;
(c)	Identification of authorship of comments;
(d)	Proposed effective date(s) of the PGRR;
(e)	Recommended priority and rank for any PGRRs requiring an ERCOT project for implementation; and
(f)	ROS action.
(6)	The ROS chair shall notify TAC of Revision Requests rejected by ROS.
1.2.3.4	Comments to the ROS Report
(1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, Reliability Monitor Staff, NERC Regional Entity Staff, the IMM, or ERCOT may comment on the ROS Report.  Comments submitted in accordance with the instructions on the ERCOT website, regardless of date of submission, shall be posted on the ERCOT website and distributed to the committee (i.e. ROS and/or TAC) considering the PGRR within three Business Days of submittal.
(2)	The comments on the ROS Report will be considered at the next regularly scheduled ROS or TAC meeting where the PGRR is being considered.
1.2.3.5	Planning Guide Revision Request Impact Analysis
(1)	If ROS recommends approval of a PGRR, ERCOT shall prepare an Impact Analysis based on the proposed language in the ROS Report.  If ERCOT has already prepared an Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall update the existing Impact Analysis, if necessary, to accommodate the language recommended for approval in the ROS Report.
(2)	The Impact Analysis shall assess the impact of the proposed PGRR on ERCOT staffing, computer systems, operations, or business functions and shall contain the following information:
(a)	An estimate of any cost and budgetary impacts to ERCOT for both implementation and ongoing operations;
(b)	The estimated amount of time required to implement the PGRR;
(c)	The identification of alternatives to the PGRR that may result in more efficient implementation; and
(d)	The identification of any manual workarounds that may be used as an interim solution and estimated costs of the workaround.
(3)	Unless a longer review period is warranted due to the complexity of the proposed ROS Report, ERCOT shall post an Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website for a PGRR for which ROS has recommended approval of, prior to the next regularly scheduled ROS meeting, and distribute to ROS.  If a longer review period is required by ERCOT to complete an Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
1.2.3.6	ROS Review of Impact Analysis
(1)	After ERCOT posts the results of the Impact Analysis, ROS shall review the Impact Analysis at its next regularly scheduled meeting.  ROS may revise its ROS Report after considering the information included in the Impact Analysis or additional comments received on the ROS Report.
(2)	Within three Business Days of ROS consideration of the Impact Analysis and ROS Report, ERCOT shall post the ROS Report on the ERCOT website.  If ROS revises the ROS Report, ERCOT shall update the Impact Analysis, if necessary, post the updated Impact Analysis on the ERCOT website, and distribute it to the committee (i.e. ROS and/or TAC) considering the Impact Analysis.  If a longer review period is required for ERCOT to update the Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
(3)	If the PGRR requires an ERCOT project for implementation, at the same meeting, ROS shall assign a recommended priority and rank for the associated project.
1.2.3.7	Wholesale Market Subcommittee Review
    (1)	The WMS shall monitor and review PGRRs as they work through the ROS process and may submit comments to the process as appropriate.
1.2.3.8	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report
(1)	ERCOT shall review the ROS Report and, if necessary, update the Impact Analysis as soon as practicable.  ERCOT shall distribute the updated Impact Analysis, if applicable, to TAC and post it on the ERCOT website.  If a longer review period is required for ERCOT to update the Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
1.2.3.9	PRS Review of Project Prioritization
(1)	At the next regularly scheduled Protocol Revision Subcommittee (PRS) meeting after ROS recommends approval of a PGRR that requires an ERCOT project for implementation, the PRS shall assign a recommended priority and rank for the associated project.
1.2.3.10	Technical Advisory Committee Vote
(1)	TAC shall consider any PGRRs that ROS has submitted to TAC for consideration for which both an ROS Report and an Impact Analysis (as updated if modified by ROS under Section 1.2.3.8, ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report) and any new or unresolved comments submitted by WMS that have been posted on the ERCOT website.  The following information must be included for each PGRR considered by TAC:
(a)	The ROS Report and Impact Analysis; 
(b)	The ROS-recommended priority and rank, if an ERCOT project is required; and
(c)	Any comments timely received in response to the ROS Report.
(2)	The quorum and voting requirements for TAC action are set forth in the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures.  In considering action on an ROS Report, TAC shall:
(a)	Recommend approval of the PGRR as recommended in the ROS Report (with due consideration to comments provided by WMS) or as modified by TAC;
(b)	Reject the PGRR;
(c)	Table the PGRR;
(d)	Remand the PGRR to ROS with instructions; or
(e)	Refer the PGRR to another TAC subcommittee or a TAC working group or task force with instructions.
(3)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a PGRR and that motion fails, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by TAC unless at the same meeting TAC later votes to recommend approval of, table, remand, or refer the PGRR.  If a motion to recommend approval of a PGRR fails via email vote according to the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by TAC unless at the next regularly scheduled TAC meeting or in a subsequent email vote prior to such meeting, TAC votes to recommend approval of, table, remand, or refer the PGRR.  The rejected PGRR shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 1.2.3.13, Appeal of Action.
(4)	Within three Business Days after TAC takes action on a PGRR, ERCOT shall post a TAC Report reflecting the TAC action on the ERCOT website.  The TAC Report shall contain the following items:
(a)	Identification of the submitter of the PGRR;
(b)	Modified Planning Guide language proposed by TAC, if applicable;
(c)	Identification of the authorship of comments, if applicable;
(d)	Proposed effective date(s) of the PGRR;  
(e)	Priority and rank for any PGRR requiring an ERCOT project for implementation;
(f)	ROS action;
(g)	TAC action;
(h)	IMM Opinion;
(i)	ERCOT Opinion; and
(j)	ERCOT Market Impact Statement.
(5) 	If TAC recommends approval of a PGRR, ERCOT shall forward the TAC Report to the ERCOT Board for consideration pursuant to 1.2.3.12, ERCOT Board Vote.
1.2.3.11	ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on Technical Advisory Committee Report
(1)	ERCOT shall review the TAC Report and, if necessary, update the Impact Analysis as soon as practicable.  ERCOT shall distribute the updated Impact Analysis, if applicable, TAC and post it on the ERCOT website.  If a longer review period is required for ERCOT to update the Impact Analysis, ERCOT shall submit comments with a schedule for completion of the Impact Analysis.
1.2.3.12	ERCOT Board Vote
(1)	Upon issuance of a TAC Report and Impact Analysis to the ERCOT Board, the ERCOT Board shall review the TAC Report and the Impact Analysis at the next regularly scheduled meeting.  For Urgent PGRRs, the ERCOT Board shall review the TAC Report and Impact Analysis at the next regularly scheduled meeting, unless a special meeting is required due to the urgency of the PGRR.
(2)	The quorum and voting requirements for ERCOT Board action are set forth in the ERCOT Bylaws.  In considering action on a TAC Report, the ERCOT Board shall:
(a)	Recommend approval of the PGRR as recommended in the TAC Report or as modified by the ERCOT Board;
(b)	Reject the PGRR;
(c)	Table the PGRR; or
(d)	Remand the PGRR to TAC with instructions.
(3)	If a motion is made to recommend approval of a PGRR and that motion fails, the PGRR shall be deemed rejected by the ERCOT Board unless at the same meeting the ERCOT Board later votes to recommend approval, table, or remand the PGRR.  The rejected PGRR shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Section 1.2.3.14, Appeal of Action.
(4)	Within three Business Days after the ERCOT Board takes action on a PGRR, ERCOT shall post a Board Report reflecting the ERCOT Board action on the ERCOT website.
1.2.3.13	PUCT Approval of Revision Requests
(1)	All PGRRs require approval by the PUCT prior to implementation.
(2)       Within three Business Days after the PUCT takes action on a PGRR, ERCOT shall post a PUCT Report reflecting the PUCT action on the ERCOT website.
1.2.3.14	Appeal of Action
 (1)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the NERC Regional Entity, the Reliability Monitor, or ERCOT may appeal an ROS action to reject, table, or refer a PGRR directly to TAC.  Such appeal to the TAC must be submitted electronically to ERCOT by completing the designated form provided on the ERCOT website within seven days after the date of the relevant ROS appealable event.  ERCOT shall reject appeals made after that time.  ERCOT shall post appeals on the ERCOT website within three Business Days of receiving the appeal.  Appeals shall be heard at the next regularly scheduled TAC meeting that is at least seven days after the date of the requested appeal.  An appeal of a PGRR to TAC suspends consideration of the PGRR until the appeal has been decided by TAC.
(2)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the NERC Regional Entity, the Reliability Monitor, the IMM, or ERCOT may appeal a TAC action to reject, table, remand, or refer a PGRR directly to the ERCOT Board.  Appeals to the ERCOT Board shall be processed in accordance with the ERCOT Board Policies and Procedures.  An appeal of a PGRR to the ERCOT Board suspends consideration of the PGRR until the appeal has been decided by the ERCOT Board.
(3)	Any ERCOT Member, Market Participant, PUCT Staff, the Reliability Monitor, the IMM, or the NERC Regional Entity may appeal any decision of the ERCOT Board regarding a PGRR to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority.  Such appeal to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority must be made within any deadline prescribed by the PUCT or other Governmental Authority, but in any event no later than 35 days of the date of the relevant ERCOT Board appealable event.  Notice of any appeal to the PUCT or other Governmental Authority must be provided, at the time of the appeal, to ERCOT’s General Counsel.  If the PUCT or other Governmental Authority rules on the PGRR, ERCOT shall post the ruling on the ERCOT website.
1.2.4	Urgent Requests
(1)	The party submitting a PGRR may request that the PGRR be considered on an urgent timeline (“Urgent”) only when the submitter can reasonably show that an existing Planning Guide provision is impairing or could imminently impair ERCOT System reliability or wholesale or retail market operations, or is causing or could imminently cause a discrepancy between a Settlement formula and a provision of the ERCOT Protocols.
(2)	The ROS may designate the PGRR for Urgent consideration if a submitter requests Urgent status or upon valid motion in a regularly scheduled meeting of the ROS.  Criteria for designating a PGRR as Urgent are that the PGRR requires immediate attention due to:
(a)	Serious concerns about ERCOT System reliability or market operations under the unmodified language; or

(b)	The crucial nature of a Settlement activity conducted pursuant to any Settlement formula.

(3)	ERCOT shall prepare an Impact Analysis for Urgent PGRRs as soon as practicable.
(4)	ROS shall consider the Urgent PGRR and Impact Analysis, if available, at the next regularly scheduled ROS meeting, or at a special meeting called by the ROS leadership to consider the Urgent PGRR.  The WMS may monitor Urgent PGRRs and shall submit comments as appropriate.
(5)	If the submitter desires to further expedite processing of the PGRR, a request for voting via email may be submitted to the ROS chair.  The ROS chair may grant the request for voting via email.  Such voting shall be conducted pursuant to the Technical Advisory Committee Procedures.  
(6)	If recommended for approval by ROS, ERCOT shall post an ROS Report on the ERCOT website within three Business Days after ROS takes action.  The TAC chair may request action from TAC to accelerate or alter the procedures described herein, as needed, to address the urgency of the situation.
(7)	Any Urgent PGRRs shall be subject to an Impact Analysis pursuant to Section 1.2.3.8, ERCOT Impact Analysis Based on ROS Report, and ERCOT Board consideration pursuant to Section 1.2.3.12, ERCOT Board Vote.
1.2.5	Planning Guide Revision Implementation
(1) 	Following PUCT approval, ERCOT shall implement PGRRs on the first day of the month following PUCT approval, unless otherwise provided in the PUCT Report for the approved PGRR.
(2)	For such other PGRRs, the Impact Analysis shall provide an estimated amount of time required to implement the PGRR and ERCOT shall issue a Market Notice as soon as practicable, but no later than ten days prior to the actual implementation, unless a different notice period is required in the PUCT Report for the approved PGRR. 
(3)	ERCOT shall implement an Administrative PGRR on the first day of the month following PUCT approval.
ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 2:  Definitions and Acronyms
April 1, 2025
____________________________________________________________________________________________
2	DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS
2.1	DEFINITIONS
Relevant terms and definitions used in the Planning Guide can be found in Protocol Section 2, Definitions and Acronyms.  The terms within this Section 2.1 contains terms not defined in Protocols.
LINKS TO DEFINITIONS:
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z;
List of Acronyms

A
[Back to Top]
B
[Back to Top] 
C
[Back to Top]
D
[Back to Top]
E
[Back to Top]
F
[Back to Top]
G
[Back to Top]
H
[Back to Top]
I
[Back to Top]
J
[Back to Top]
K
[Back to Top]
L
[Back to Top]
M
Manual System Adjustment
Operator actions, with consequences allowed by Section 4, Transmission Planning Criteria, in response to an outage in the ERCOT System, including, but not limited to circuit switching or changes to schedules of Generation Resources, but excluding the physical repair or replacement of any damaged equipment.
[Back to Top]
[PGRR118:  Replace the definition “Manual System Adjustment” above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
Manual System Adjustment
Operator actions, with consequences allowed by Section 4, Transmission Planning Criteria, in response to an outage in the ERCOT System, including, but not limited to circuit switching or changes to schedules of Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), but excluding the physical repair or replacement of any damaged equipment.
N
[Back to Top]
O
[Back to Top]
P
[Back to Top]
Q
[Back to Top]
R
[Back to Top]
S
[Back to Top]
T
[Back to Top]
U
[Back to Top]
V
[Back to Top]
W
[Back to Top]
X
[Back to Top]
Y
[Back to Top]
Z
[Back to Top]
2.2	ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CY	Current Year
FIS	Full Interconnection Study
FY	Future Year
GIC	Geomagnetically-Induced Current
GIM	Generator Interconnection or Modification
GINR	Generation Interconnection or Change Request
GMD	Geomagnetic Disturbance
GRRA	Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment
LTSA	Long-Term System Assessment
RIOO	Resource Integration and Ongoing Operations
SSR	Subsynchronous Resonance
TCEQ	Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
TPIT	Transmission Project and Information Tracking
ERCOT Planning Guide
Section 3:  Regional Planning
April 1, 2025
3	REGIONAL PLANNING	1
3.1	COMMUNICATIONS	1
3.1.1	Overview of Major Transmission Planning Activities	1
3.1.1.1	Long-Term System Assessment	1
3.1.1.2	Regional Transmission Plan	2
3.1.1.3	Regional Planning Group Project Reviews	2
3.1.1.4	Generation Interconnection Process	3
3.1.1.5	Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Vulnerability Assessment	3
3.1.1.6	Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment (GRRA)	4
3.1.2	Regional Planning Group Project Submission	5
3.1.2.1	All Projects	5
3.1.3	Project Evaluation	6
3.1.3.1	Definitions of Reliability-Driven and Economic-Driven Projects	8
3.1.3.2	Reliability-Driven Project Evaluation	9
3.1.4	Regional Transmission Plan Development Process	9
3.1.4.1	Development of Regional Transmission Plan	9
3.1.4.1.1	Regional Transmission Plan Cases	10
3.1.4.2	Use of Regional Transmission Plan	11
3.1.5	Regional Planning Group Comment Process	12
3.1.6	Notify PUCT of Recommended Transmission Projects	13
3.1.7	Steady State Transmission Planning Load Forecast	13
3.1.8	Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities	14
3.1.9	Transmission Interconnection Study	16
3	REGIONAL PLANNING
3.1	Communications
3.1.1	Overview of Major Transmission Planning Activities
(1)	The process of planning a reliable and efficient transmission system for the ERCOT Region is composed of several types of activities and studies.  
(2)	The effective date for the Year 6 case is the 2014 Steady State Working Group (SSWG) Data Set B base case release date.  Consideration of the Year 6 case in the Regional Transmission Plan is required starting in 2014.
3.1.1.1	Long-Term System Assessment
(1)	The Long-Term System Assessment (LTSA) is performed by ERCOT in coordination with the Regional Planning Group (RPG) on a biennial basis (in even-numbered years) and reviewed annually.  The study uses scenario analysis techniques to assess the potential needs of the ERCOT System up to 20 years into the future.  The role of the LTSA is not to recommend the construction of specific system upgrades, due to the high degree of uncertainty associated with the amount and location of loads and Resources in this timeframe.  Instead, the role of the LTSA is to evaluate the system upgrades that are indicated under each of a wide variety of scenarios in order to identify upgrades that are robust across a range of scenarios or might be more economic than the upgrades that would be determined considering only needs of Years 1 to 6 in the Regional Transmission Plan development.
[PGRR116:  Insert paragraph (2) below upon system implementation of NPRR1240:]
(2)	ERCOT shall post the LTSA as follows:
(a)	Versions that include ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) shall be posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area;
(b)	Versions that include both ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the MIS Certified Area for Transmission Service Providers (TSPs) only; and
(c)	Versions redacted of ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the ERCOT website.

3.1.1.2	Regional Transmission Plan
(1)	The Regional Transmission Plan is developed annually by ERCOT, in coordination with the RPG and Transmission Service Providers (TSPs).  The Regional Transmission Plan addresses regional and ERCOT-wide reliability and economic transmission needs and the planned improvements to meet those needs for the upcoming six years starting with the SSWG base cases.  These planned improvements include projects previously approved by the ERCOT Board, projects previously reviewed by the RPG, new projects that will be refined at the appropriate time by TSPs in order to complete RPG review, and the local projects currently planned by TSPs.  Combined, these projects represent ERCOT’s plan which addresses the reliability and efficiency of the ERCOT System in order to meet North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) Reliability Standards, the Protocols, Nodal Operating Guides and this Planning Guide.  Projects that are included in the Regional Transmission Plan are not considered to have been endorsed by ERCOT until they have undergone the appropriate level of RPG Project Review as outlined in Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, if required.  The process used by ERCOT to develop the Regional Transmission Plan is outlined in Section 3.1.4, Regional Transmission Plan Development Process.
(2)	ERCOT shall post the Regional Transmission Plan by December 31 of each year as follows:
(a)	Versions that include ERCOT Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (ECEII) shall be posted on the Market Information System (MIS) Secure Area;
(b)	Versions that include both ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only; and
(c)	Versions redacted of ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the ERCOT website.
(3)	ERCOT shall include in the Regional Transmission Plan report a list of Transmission Facilities that are loaded above 95% of their applicable Ratings for the following conditions:
(a)	Normal system conditions; or 
(b)	Following the contingency loss of a single generating unit, transmission circuit, transformer, or common tower outage.
3.1.1.3	Regional Planning Group Project Reviews
(1)	Except for minor transmission projects that have only localized impacts and projects that are directly associated with the interconnection of new Generation Resources, all transmission projects in the ERCOT Region undergo a formal review by the RPG in accordance with Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  In addition, ERCOT performs an independent analysis of the need for major transmission projects that are submitted for RPG Project Review.  The affirmative result of this review is formal endorsement of the project by ERCOT.  This ERCOT project endorsement is intended to support, to the extent applicable, a finding by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) that a project is necessary for the service, accommodation, convenience, or safety of the public within the meaning of Public Utility Regulatory Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 37.056 (Vernon 1998 and Supp. 2007) and P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.101, Certification Criteria.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (1) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(1)	Except for minor transmission projects that have only localized impacts and projects that are directly associated with the interconnection of new Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources (ESRs), all transmission projects in the ERCOT Region undergo a formal review by the RPG in accordance with Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process.  In addition, ERCOT performs an independent analysis of the need for major transmission projects that are submitted for RPG Project Review.  The affirmative result of this review is formal endorsement of the project by ERCOT.  This ERCOT project endorsement is intended to support, to the extent applicable, a finding by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) that a project is necessary for the service, accommodation, convenience, or safety of the public within the meaning of Public Utility Regulatory Act, TEX. UTIL. CODE ANN. § 37.056 (Vernon 1998 and Supp. 2007) and P.U.C. SUBST. R. 25.101, Certification Criteria.
3.1.1.4	Generation Interconnection Process
(1)	This process facilitates the interconnection of new generation units in the ERCOT Region by assessing the transmission upgrades necessary for new generating units to operate reliably.  The process to study interconnecting new generation or modifying an existing generation interconnection to the ERCOT Transmission Grid is covered in Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification.  The generation interconnection study process primarily covers the direct connection of generation Facilities to the ERCOT Transmission Grid and directly-related projects.  Additional upgrades to the ERCOT Transmission Grid that might be cost-effective as a result of new or modified generation may be initiated by any stakeholder through the RPG Project Review procedure described in Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, at the appropriate time, subject to the confidentiality provisions in Section 5.    
3.1.1.5	Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Vulnerability Assessment
(1)	The purpose of Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) vulnerability assessments is to provide a coordinated assessment and corrective action plan(s) for the ERCOT System to meet ERCOT and NERC GMD reliability performance criteria for GMD events.  The most recent Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) system models developed and maintained by ERCOT in collaboration with the TSPs and Resource Entities as described in Section 6.11, Process for Developing Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) System Models, shall be used as the basis for the ERCOT benchmark and supplemental GMD vulnerability assessments.  Projects that are included in the corrective action plan(s) are not considered to have been endorsed by ERCOT until they have undergone the appropriate level of RPG Project Review as outlined in Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, if required.  The process used by ERCOT to develop the GMD benchmark and supplemental vulnerability assessments is outlined in Section 3.1.8, Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities.
3.1.1.6	Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment (GRRA) 
(1)	ERCOT shall perform the Grid Reliability and Resiliency Assessment (GRRA) in coordination with the RPG on a biennial basis in even-numbered years to assess the reliability and resiliency of the ERCOT System in extreme weather scenarios.  The study shall:
(a)	Consider the impact of different levels of thermal and renewable generation availability;
(b)	Identify areas of the ERCOT Region that face significant grid reliability and resiliency issues, taking into account the impact of potential Outages caused by regional extreme weather scenarios on Customers; and
(c)	Identify transmission upgrades that are expected to increase the reliability or resiliency of the ERCOT System in extreme weather scenarios based on the criteria established in Section 4.1.2, Resiliency Criteria.
(2)	Extreme weather scenarios shall be selected for one or more study cases.  The study cases prepared will be adjusted to have sufficient power supply to meet the demand.  The study cases shall be based on the current Regional Transmission Plan study cases, utilizing coincident load values, and may include scenarios that vary one or more of the following modeling assumptions:
(a)	Different patterns of generation; 
(b)	Extreme peak load; 
(c)	Multiple Transmission Element Outages; and/or
(d)	Multiple Generation Resource Outages.
(3)	Under the extreme weather study scenarios described in paragraph (2) above, the post-contingency performance of the ERCOT System shall be evaluated for the following contingency events:
(a)	Categories P0, P1, and P2.1 as defined in NERC Reliability Standard TPL-001, System Performance Under Normal Conditions; and 
(b)	Common tower outages as defined in Section 4.1.1.1, Planning Assumptions.
3.1.2	Regional Planning Group Project Submission
(1)	Transmission projects that are proposed for RPG Review, pursuant to Protocol Section 3.11.4.1, Project Submission, shall be submitted according to the provisions outlined in Section 3.1.2.1, All Projects.  
3.1.2.1	All Projects
(1)	The submittal of each transmission project (60 kV and above) for RPG Project Review should include the following elements:
(a)	The proposed project description including expected cost, feasible alternative(s) considered, transmission topology and Transmission Facility modeling parameter data, and all study cases used to generate results supporting the need for the project in electronic format (powerflow data should be in PTI Power System Simulator for Engineering (PSS/E) RAWD format).  Also, the submission should include accurate maps and one-line diagrams showing locations of the proposed project and feasible alternatives;
(b)	Identification of the SSWG, Dynamics Working Group (DWG), or Regional Transmission Plan powerflow cases used as a basis for the study and any associated changes that describe and allow accurate modeling of the proposed project;
(c)	Description and data for all changes made to the SSWG base cases or Regional Transmission Plan cases used to identify the need for the project, such as Generation Resource unavailability and area peak load forecast;  
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (c) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(c)	Description and data for all changes made to the SSWG base cases or Regional Transmission Plan cases used to identify the need for the project, such as Resource unavailability and area peak load forecast;  
(d)	A description of the reliability and/or economic problem that is being solved; 
(e)	Information that supports any load values that differ from the load forecast used in the base cases identified in item (b) above, including any relevant historical load information or evidence demonstrating that a submitted load value is Substantiated Load;
(f)	A description of the Subsynchronous Resonance (SSR) impact of the proposed project to the generation Facilities in the system pursuant to Protocol Section 3.22.1, Subsynchronous Resonance Vulnerability Assessment, and potential SSR Countermeasure plan for any identified SSR vulnerability, if applicable; 
(g)	Desired/needed in-service date for the project, and feasible in-service date, if different; 
(h)	The phone number and email address of the single point of contact who can respond to ERCOT and RPG participant questions or requests for additional information necessary for stakeholder review; and
(i)	Analysis of rejected alternatives, including cost estimates, and other factors considered in the comparison of alternatives with the proposed project.
(2)	Both transmission and distribution solutions to performance deficiencies may be considered where applicable.  
(3)	If there is any other information, not included above, that the submitting party believes is relevant to consideration of the need for any submitted project, the submitting party should include that information in the project submission.     
3.1.3	Project Evaluation
(1)	ERCOT and the RPG shall evaluate proposed transmission projects using a variety of tools and techniques as needed to ensure that the system is able to meet applicable reliability criteria in a cost-effective manner.  For most proposed projects, several alternatives will be identified to meet the reliability criteria or other performance improvement objectives that the proposed project is designed to meet.  The project alternative with the expected lowest cost over the life of the project is generally recommended, subject to consideration of the expected long-term system needs in the area, including, as applicable, any evidence of Substantiated Load, and subject to consideration of the relative operational impacts of the alternatives.  
(2)	In some cases, one alternative may be to dispatch the system in such a way that all reliability requirements are met, even without the proposed transmission project or any transmission alternative, resulting in a less efficient dispatch than what would be required to meet the reliability requirements if the proposed project was in place.  Consideration of the merits of this alternative relative to the proposed transmission project is more complex.  To facilitate the discussion and consideration of these alternatives, ERCOT has adopted certain definitions and practices, described in paragraph (4) of Protocol Section 3.11.2, Planning Criteria, and Sections 3.1.3.1, Definitions of Reliability-Driven and Economic-Driven Projects, and 3.1.3.2, Reliability-Driven Project Evaluation below.
(3)	In conducting an independent review of any project, ERCOT may, in its discretion, make adjustments to the planning case to ensure that the case reaches a solution.  When conducting an independent review of any project classified as Tier 1 pursuant to Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, ERCOT must provide reasonable advance notice to the RPG of any proposed adjustments and an opportunity for stakeholder comment on them.  
(4)	As part of its independent review of any project classified as Tier 1 pursuant to Protocol Section 3.11.4, ERCOT shall: 
(a)	Perform a generation sensitivity analysis.  The generation sensitivity analysis will evaluate the effect that proposed Generation Resources in or near the study area will have on a recommended transmission project.  Generation Resources that have signed Standard Generation Interconnection Agreements (SGIAs) but were not included in the study cases because they did not meet all of the requirements for inclusion in the cases pursuant to Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, will be included in the sensitivity analysis.  ERCOT shall not consider the results of the generation sensitivity analysis in determining project need during its independent review of the project; and
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (a) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(a)	Perform a generation sensitivity analysis.  The generation sensitivity analysis will evaluate the effect that proposed Generation Resources and/or ESRs in or near the study area will have on a recommended transmission project.  Generation Resources and ESRs that have signed Standard Generation Interconnection Agreements (SGIAs) but were not included in the study cases because they did not meet all of the requirements for inclusion in the cases pursuant to Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, will be included in the sensitivity analysis.  ERCOT shall not consider the results of the generation sensitivity analysis in determining project need during its independent review of the project; and  
(b)	Evaluate impacts related to the load scaling used in the study on any constraints resulting in project recommendations.  The results of this evaluation shall be included in the final recommendations in the independent review.
(5)	ERCOT’s independent review shall incorporate and consider historical load and any Substantiated Load.
3.1.3.1	Definitions of Reliability-Driven and Economic-Driven Projects
(1)	Proposed transmission projects are categorized for evaluation purposes into two types:
(a)	Reliability-driven projects; and 
(b)	Economic-driven projects.
(2)	The differentiation between these two types of projects is based on whether a simultaneously-feasible, security-constrained generating unit commitment dispatch is expected to be available for all hours of the planning horizon that can resolve the system reliability issue that the proposed project is intended to resolve.  If it is not possible to simulate a dispatch of the Generation Resources such that all reliability criteria are met without the project, and the addition of the project allows the reliability criteria to be met, then the project is classified as a reliability-driven project.  If it is possible to simulate a dispatch of the Generation Resources in such a way that all reliability criteria are met without the project, but the project may allow the reliability criteria to be met at a lower total cost, then the project is classified as an economic-driven project.  When performing a simulation of the generating unit commitment and dispatch, only contingencies and limits that would be considered in the operations horizon shall be simulated.  
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(2)	The differentiation between these two types of projects is based on whether a simultaneously-feasible, security-constrained generating unit commitment and dispatch is expected to be available for all hours of the planning horizon that can resolve the system reliability issue that the proposed project is intended to resolve.  If it is not possible to simulate a dispatch of the Generation Resources and ESRs such that all reliability criteria are met without the project, and the addition of the project allows the reliability criteria to be met, then the project is classified as a reliability-driven project.  If it is possible to simulate a dispatch of the Generation Resources and ESRs in such a way that all reliability criteria are met without the project, but the project may allow the reliability criteria to be met at a lower total cost, then the project is classified as an economic-driven project.  When performing a simulation of the generating unit commitment and dispatch, only contingencies and limits that would be considered in the operations horizon shall be simulated. 
3.1.3.2	Reliability-Driven Project Evaluation
(1)	For reliability-driven projects, the comparison of project costs generally includes only the relative capital costs of the alternatives.  In the case of Tier 1 and 2 projects, any differences in expected ERCOT System production costs between the alternatives may be included in the consideration of the relative costs of the alternatives, due to larger potential impacts on losses and congestion of these projects.
3.1.4	Regional Transmission Plan Development Process
(1)	As prescribed by Section 3.1.1.2, Regional Transmission Plan, the purpose of the Regional Transmission Plan is to provide a coordinated plan for the ERCOT System.  This Section describes the process used by ERCOT to develop the Regional Transmission Plan.  While unanticipated changes in Load and generation may require additional projects to be needed that were not included in the current Regional Transmission Plan, or require additional evaluation of projects included in the current Regional Transmission Plan when they are submitted for RPG Project Review, the Regional Transmission Plan provides a reasonable and supportable basis for analyses of the planned ERCOT Transmission Grid.   
3.1.4.1	Development of Regional Transmission Plan
(1)	The planning process begins with computer modeling studies of the generation and Transmission Facilities and substation Loads under normal conditions in the ERCOT System.  Contingency conditions along with changes in Load and generation that might be expected to occur in operation of the ERCOT Transmission Grid are also modeled.  To maintain adequate service and minimize interruptions during Outages, model simulations are used to identify adverse results based upon the planning criteria and to examine the effectiveness of various problem-solving alternatives.
(2)	The effectiveness of each alternative will be evaluated under a variety of possible operating environments because Loads and operating conditions cannot be predicted with certainty.  As a result, repeated simulations under different conditions are often required.  In addition, options considered for future installation may affect other alternatives so that several different combinations must be evaluated, thereby multiplying the number of simulations required.
(3)	Once feasible alternatives have been identified, the process is continued with a comparison of those alternatives.  To determine the most favorable, the short-range and long-range benefits of each alternative must be considered including operating flexibility and compatibility with future plans.
3.1.4.1.1	Regional Transmission Plan Cases
(1)	The starting base cases for the Regional Transmission Plan development are created by removing all Tier 1, 2, and 3 projects that have not received RPG acceptance or, if applicable, ERCOT endorsement from the most recent SSWG base cases.

(2)	ERCOT shall set all non-seasonal Mothballed Generation Resources to out of service in the Regional Transmission Plan reliability base cases.  ERCOT shall add proposed Generation Resources that have met the criteria for inclusion in Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, to the Regional Transmission Plan base cases.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (2) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(2)	ERCOT shall set all non-seasonal Mothballed Generation Resources and Mothballed ESRs to out of service in the Regional Transmission Plan reliability base cases.  ERCOT shall add proposed Generation Resources and ESRs that have met the criteria for inclusion in Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models, to the Regional Transmission Plan base cases. 
(3)	ERCOT shall update the Regional Transmission Plan reliability and economic base cases to reflect any updates to the amount of Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) capacity available to the ERCOT Region. 
(4)	ERCOT may, in its discretion, set a Generation Resource to out of service in the Regional Transmission Plan base cases prior to receiving a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource.  ERCOT must provide reasonable advance notice to the RPG of any proposed Generation Resource retirements/mothballs and allow an opportunity for stakeholder comments.
(a)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (4) above on the ERCOT website.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(4)	ERCOT may, in its discretion, set a Generation Resource or ESR to out of service in the Regional Transmission Plan base cases prior to receiving a Notification of Suspension of Operations (NSO) if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource.  ERCOT must provide reasonable advance notice to the RPG of any proposed Resource retirements/mothballs and allow an opportunity for stakeholder comments.
(a)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources and ESRs that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (4) above on the ERCOT website. 
(5)	In its Regional Transmission Plan studies, ERCOT shall first consider transmission needs without Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) actions.  After evaluating these needs, ERCOT may model a RAS in the Regional Transmission Plan cases only if ERCOT’s initial studies did not identify a transmission project to exit the RAS or if a transmission project to exit the RAS is not expected to be in service by the season and year the case represents.
[PGRR113:  Replace paragraph (5) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1198:]
(5)	In its Regional Transmission Plan studies, ERCOT shall first consider transmission needs without Remedial Action Scheme (RAS) or Constraint Management Plan (CMP) actions.  After evaluating these needs, ERCOT may model a RAS or CMP in the Regional Transmission Plan cases only if ERCOT’s initial studies did not identify a transmission project to exit the RAS or CMP, or if a transmission project to exit the RAS or CMP is not expected to be in service by the season and year the case represents.
(6)	ERCOT may, in its discretion, make other adjustments to any Regional Transmission Plan base case to ensure that the case reaches a solution.  ERCOT must provide reasonable advance notice to the RPG of any proposed adjustments and an opportunity for stakeholder comment on them.   
3.1.4.2	Use of Regional Transmission Plan
(1)	If a project submitted for RPG review is included in the Regional Transmission Plan, and no changes are identified which would affect the need for the proposed project through the comment period described in Section 3.1.5, Regional Planning Group Comment Process, then the Regional Transmission Plan may serve as the ERCOT Independent Review of the proposed project.
(2)	Tier 1, 2, and 3 projects that are included in the Regional Transmission Plan should be submitted for RPG Project Review at an appropriate lead time.  Generally, this lead time should be sufficient to allow the review to be completed before the TSP reaches the decision point at which it must initiate the engineering and procurement in order to meet the required in-service date, but not farther in advance than is necessary.  In general, these lead times will be three to four months for Tier 3 projects and six to seven months for Tier 1 and 2 projects.  
(3)	Tier 1, 2, and 3 projects that are included in the Regional Transmission Plan but do not reach this decision point before the development of the next year’s Regional Transmission Plan begins will be removed from the case used to develop the Regional Transmission Plan and will be re-evaluated as a part of the development of this subsequent Regional Transmission Plan.     
3.1.5	Regional Planning Group Comment Process
(1)	Any stakeholder may initiate an RPG project review in accordance with Protocol Section 3.11.4.1, Project Submission.  All project submissions should be sent electronically to rpg_submittal@ercot.com.  The RPG project review consists of the following steps:  
(a)	ERCOT will provide electronic copies of RPG project review submittals by email to the RPG within five Business Days of receipt and solicit comments or questions from the RPG;
(b)	ERCOT will assign a unique project identification number (RPG project number) to the RPG project review submittals according to the following convention:
yrRPGxxx
            where:	       yr is the calendar year the RPG project is submitted
	             RPG indicates RPG project
	                   xxx is a sequence number beginning with 001 (reset for each year)
(c)	All concerns/questions or objections about the submitted project by any stakeholder or ERCOT should be submitted by email to the RPG within 15 Business Days after ERCOT’s transmittal to the RPG;
(d)	Each Entity providing comments should provide a “single” complete comment about each project by the end of the 15-Business Day comment period rather than sending multiple comments at various times or from various individuals;
(e)	Any questions related to data deficiency should be submitted to ERCOT and the submitting party immediately;
(f)	If concerns or objections about a project are received during the 15-Business Day comment period, the project will be put into “study mode.”  During study mode, the submitting party shall respond to any concerns or objections and provide additional information, if necessary, by email to the RPG until all concerns are resolved or until ERCOT assesses that a reasonable effort has been made to resolve all concerns or objections.  A submitting party may make modifications to a Tier 3 project to address concerns or objections without having to resubmit the project so long as the modifications do not result in the project being classified as a Tier 1 or 2 project.  Study mode shall end no later than 20 Business Days following the end of the comment period, unless ERCOT finds good cause to extend study mode;
(g)	The submitting party should answer all questions and respond to all concerns in a timely manner;
(h)	Comments should be based on Good Utility Practice and sound engineering judgment.  Suggestions should be able to be implemented by the TSP constructing and operating the project; and
(i)	ERCOT will post all project submissions, the comments received, and other information and databases associated with submitted transmission projects on the MIS Secure Area.
(j)	Comments received after the 15-Business Day comment period may be considered by ERCOT or the submitting party, but a response is not required.
3.1.6	Notify PUCT of Recommended Transmission Projects
(1)	ERCOT will notify the PUCT of the disposition of all Tier 1 or 2 projects and of the designated TSPs for those projects.  ERCOT will then support ERCOT-endorsed projects in future Certificate of Convenience and Necessity (CCN) proceedings required for those projects through the use of filed supporting documents and testimony if necessary.
3.1.7	Steady State Transmission Planning Load Forecast
(1)	ERCOT shall use the following process for determining the load level to be used in the starting base cases for the Regional Transmission Plan and in the steady-state evaluation of a Tier 1 or Tier 2 project pursuant to Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process:
(a)	ERCOT will compare the ERCOT 90/10 load forecast with the summed SSWG bus-level load forecast for each Weather Zone.
(b)	If the ERCOT 90/10 load forecast is higher, ERCOT will use this forecast for the Weather Zone.
(c)	If the SSWG load forecast for a Weather Zone is higher than or equal to the ERCOT 90/10 load forecast, ERCOT will use the ERCOT 90/10 load forecast plus any additional historical load and Substantiated Load submitted by the Transmission and/or Distribution Service Providers (TDSPs) for the Weather Zone. 
3.1.8	Planning Geomagnetic Disturbance (GMD) Activities
(1)	As required by the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, ERCOT shall employ the GIC system models described in Section 6.11, Process for Developing Geomagnetically-Induced Current (GIC) System Models, to perform simulations to identify maximum effective GIC flow in the high side wye-grounded transformers for the worst case geoelectric field orientation for each transformer for the benchmark and supplemental GMD events.  ERCOT shall post on the MIS Secure Area the preliminary maximum effective GIC flows and preliminary GIC time series results to the TSPs and Resource Entities for comment before finalizing the results.  Upon consideration of the comments, ERCOT shall make the final maximum effective GIC flows in the high side wye-grounded transformers and the final GIC time series available to TSPs and Resource Entities by posting this data on the ERCOT MIS Secure Area.
(2)	Each TSP and Resource Entity that owns a high side wye-grounded transformer(s) with the high side terminal operated at 200 kV or higher within the ERCOT planning area shall perform the benchmark and supplemental transformer thermal impact assessment(s) as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard and shall provide to ERCOT any suggested actions to mitigate the impact of GICs on those transformers with the high side terminal operated at 200 kV or higher within 18 months of the date of ERCOT notification to TSPs and Resource Entities that the final GIC flow results are posted on the MIS Secure Area. 
(3)	ERCOT and the TSPs shall develop for approval by the TAC, criteria for acceptable steady-state voltage performance during the benchmark and supplemental GMD events.
(4)	ERCOT in collaboration with the TSPs and Resource Entities shall perform the ERCOT benchmark and supplemental GMD vulnerability assessments as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard; and may set a Generation Resource to out of service prior to receiving an NSO if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Generation Resource.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the preliminary results of the GMD vulnerability assessments to the TSPs and Resource Entities for comment before finalizing the results.  Upon request, ERCOT shall make available to the TSPs the GIC system models and other model information used for the GMD vulnerability assessments, including suggested actions described in paragraph (2) above.
(a)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (4) above on the ERCOT website.
[PGRR118:  Replace paragraph (4) above with the following upon system implementation of NPRR1246:]
(4)	ERCOT in collaboration with the TSPs and Resource Entities shall perform the ERCOT benchmark and supplemental GMD vulnerability assessments as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard; and may set a Generation Resource or ESR to out of service prior to receiving an NSO if the Resource Entity notifies ERCOT of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource and/or makes a public statement of its intent to retire/mothball the Resource.  ERCOT shall post on the ERCOT website the preliminary results of the GMD vulnerability assessments to the TSPs and Resource Entities for comment before finalizing the results.  Upon request, ERCOT shall make available to the TSPs the GIC system models and other model information used for the GMD vulnerability assessments, including suggested actions described in paragraph (2) above.
(a)	ERCOT will post and maintain the current list of Generation Resources and ESRs that will be set to out of service pursuant to paragraph (4) above on the ERCOT website.
(5)	ERCOT shall finalize the ERCOT benchmark and supplemental GMD vulnerability assessments, including any associated corrective action plans, post them as follows, and notify TSPs and Resource Entities of the posting:
(a)	Versions that include ECEII shall be posted on the MIS Secure Area;
(b)	Versions that include both ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the MIS Certified Area for TSPs only; and
(c)	Versions redacted of ECEII and Protected Information shall be posted on the ERCOT website.
(6)	For each GMD vulnerability assessment that does not satisfy applicable performance requirements, each impacted TSP and Resource Entity, in collaboration with ERCOT, shall develop and document corrective action plan(s) for their facilities, and develop a timetable, subject to revision, for implementing the corrective action plan(s).  For any corrective action plan proposing upgrades to the transmission system that are subject to Protocol Section 3.11.4, Regional Planning Group Project Review Process, review shall be conducted in accordance with the process described therein.  For any corrective action plan that is not subject to the review process described in Protocol Section 3.11.4, ERCOT shall review the corrective action plan to ensure that it satisfies applicable performance requirements.  Any corrective action plan that proposes operational actions shall be reviewed pursuant to Nodal Operating Guide Section 11, Constraint Management Plans and Remedial Action Schemes.
(a)	If a situation beyond the control of the TSP or Resource Entity prevents implementation of a corrective action plan within the timetable for implementation required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, the TSP or Resource Entity shall submit a revised corrective action plan, updated timetable, and documentation supporting the request for extension of time, as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, to ERCOT within 30 days of the revision of the corrective action plan.
(b)	After receipt of all information required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, ERCOT shall submit the request for extension of time to the NERC Regional Entity, as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard, on behalf of the TSP or Resource Entity.
(7)	ERCOT shall post the GMD vulnerability assessment reports and corrective action plan(s) on the ERCOT MIS Secure Area within 90 calendar days of development or revision.
(8)	ERCOT in collaboration with TSPs and Resource Entities shall implement a process for obtaining GIC monitor data and geomagnetic field data from TSPs, Resource Entities, or other available sources as required in the applicable NERC Reliability Standard.
3.1.9	Transmission Interconnection Study
(1)	ERCOT shall perform an annual transmission interconnection study to analyze the reliability impact of any transmission projects 100 kV or above that are expected to be in-service before the completion of the next Regional Transmission Plan and were not included in the current Regional Transmission Plan, an RPG project submission, or a Generation Interconnection or Change Request (GINR) study pursuant to Section 5, Generator Interconnection or Modification. 
(a)	ERCOT shall identify a list of transmission projects 100 kV or above that need to be included in the annual transmission interconnection study and shall send the list to the TSPs that own the projects.
(b)	Within 20 Business Days of receipt of the list, each TSP that owns an identified transmission project shall send to ERCOT a PSS/E or PowerWorld formatted incremental change file to model the project in the current Regional Transmission Plan study cases.
(c)	ERCOT shall post a study report detailing its findings on the MIS Secure Area within 20 Business Days of completion. 
(2)	After each Transmission Project and Information Tracking (TPIT) update ERCOT shall identify a list of transmission projects 100 kV or above that are expected to be in-service before the completion of the next annual transmission interconnection study and were not included in the previous transmission interconnection study, Regional Transmission Plan, an RPG project submission, or a GINR study pursuant to Section 5.  ERCOT shall send the list to the TSPs that own the projects.
(a)	Within 20 Business Days of receipt of the list, each TSP that owns an identified transmission project shall send to ERCOT a study report detailing the reliability impact analysis it conducted for the project.  At a minimum the report shall identify the study base case(s), contingencies, and results.
(b)	ERCOT shall review the TSP reports and provide comments to the TSP within 20 Business Days of receipt.
ERCOT Planning Guide
