Diagram View — PSSE API Manual 35.6.0 documentation

Diagram View¶

35.6.0

July 12, 2023

changediagcontour

Use this API to change the contour parameters for the contour in the active Slider diagram in the GUI.

checkdiagfile

Use this API to check the active Slider Diagram in the GUI against the current network case.

closediagfile

Use this API to close the active Slider Diagram in the GUI without prompting to save the Diagram.

deletediagcontour

Use this API to delete the contour from the active Slider Diagram in the GUI.

enablediagcontour

Use this API to specify the contour parameters and display a contour in the active Slider Diagram in the GUI.

exportbuslocfile

This API routine is obsolete.

exportbuslocfile_2

Use this API to export the bus location from the active Slider Diagram in the GUI to a file.

exportimagefile

This API routine is obsolete.

exportimagefile_2

Use this API to export an image of the active Slider Diagram in the GUI to a file.

gexmbus

Use this API to create a GEXM/GOUT display of a bus in an active Slider diagram in the GUI.

growbus

Use this API to GROW a bus in an active Slider diagram in the GUI.

growbuslevels

Use this API to GROW a bus and all the connected buses up to the specified number of levels away in an active Slider diagram in the GUI.

growdiagram

This API routine is obsolete.

growdiagram_2

Use this API to GROW a bus and all the connected buses in an active Slider diagram in the GUI.

growstation

This API routine was first introduced in release 34.0.0.

grpg

Use this API to produce a GRPG report in the active Slider diagram in the GUI.

importdrawfile

Use this API to import a Draw Data File into an active Slider diagram in the GUI.

importimagefile

Use this API to import an image into the background layer of the active Slider diagram in the GUI.

newdiagfile

Use this API to open a new Slider diagram in the GUI.

nextdiagfiledataset

This API is used to display the next element in the active data set on the active Slider diagram.

openaccfile

This API routine is obsolete.

openaccfile_2

This API is used to open an existing ACC results file for displaying results on diagram.

openbuslocfile

Use this API to open an existing bus location file in the GUI.

opendiagfile

Use this API to open an existing Slider diagram in the GUI.

prevdiagfiledataset

This API is used to display the previous element in the active data set on the active Slider diagram.

printdiagfile

This API routine is obsolete.

printdiagfile_2

Use this API to print the active Slider diagram in the GUI.

refreshdiagcontour

Use this API to refresh the contour in the active Slider diagram in the GUI.

refreshdiagfile

Use this API to refresh the results and styles in the active Slider diagram in the GUI.

renumdiagfile

Use this API to renumber buses in the active Slider diagram in the GUI.

savediagfile

Use this API to save the active Slider diagram in the GUI.

setdiagautofile

Use this API to specify an automation file that is run each time results are updated on the active Slider diagram.

setdiagfont

Use this API to specify the default text font in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagprec

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagprec_2

Use this API to specify the precision of results displayed in Slider Diagrams.

setdiagprop

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagprop_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagprop_3

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagprop_4

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagprop_5

Use this API to specify basic properties in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresaccc

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresaccc_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresaccc_3

Use this API to set the ACCC analysis annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresascc

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresascc_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresascc_3

This API is used to set the ASCC short circuit analysis annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresdata

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresdata_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresdata_3

Use this API to specify the basic Power Flow annotation options in the active Slider Diagram.

setdiagresdyn

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresdyn_2

This API is used to set the dynamic simulation annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresgdif

Use this API to specify the case comparison voltage and range checking annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresiec

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresiec_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresiec_3

Use this API to specify the IEC annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresmust

This API is used to set the MUST simulation annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresopf

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresopf_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresopf_3

Use this API to specify the OPF annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagrespflowcheck

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagrespflowcheck_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagrespflowcheck_3

Use this API to specify the Power Flow voltage and range checking annotation options in the active Slider Diagram.

setdiagrespflowoptions

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagrespflowoptions_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagrespflowoptions_3

Use this API to specify the basic Power Flow annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresrel

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresrel_2

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresrel_3

Use this API to specify the reliability annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagresscgr

Use this API to specify the short circuit analysis voltage and range checking annotation options in the active Slider diagram.

setdiagrestypeacc

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to ACCC results.

setdiagrestypeascc

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to ASCC fault calculation results.

setdiagrestypedata

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to impedance data values.

setdiagrestypedyn

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to Dynamics data results.

setdiagrestypegdif

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to the differences in values between the current network case and a supplied comparison case.

setdiagrestypegic

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to GIC solution results.

setdiagrestypeharm

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to Harmonics solution results.

setdiagrestypeiec

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to IEC Fault calculation results.

setdiagrestypemust

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to MUST solution results.

setdiagrestypeopf

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to OPF solution results.

setdiagrestypepflow

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to Power Flow results.

setdiagrestyperel

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to reliability analysis results.

setdiagrestypescgr

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to the results of a short circuit analysis.

setdiagrestypetspf

Use this API to set the type of results displayed in the active Slider diagram to TSPF solution results.

setdiagresvrcs

This API routine is obsolete.

setdiagresvrcs_2

Use this API to specify the system diagram defaults for Voltage coloring and style, Out of Service coloring and style etc.

setdiagtitle

Use this API to set the title of the active Slider diagram.

switchdiagfiledataset

This API is used to rotate through values for the current element in the active data set on the active Slider diagram.

updatebuslocdiagfile

Use this API to update bus locations in the active Slider diagram in the GUI using the positions found in the current bus location file.