Dynamic Simulation Operation — PSSE API Manual 35.6.0 documentation

Dynamic Simulation Operation¶

35.6.0

July 12, 2023

addmodellibrary

Use this API to add a library to the list to be searched for library models.

astr

Use this API to calculate and replicates the state variable system matrices in the form required by the Linear Dynamic Analysis Program, LSYSAN (activity ASTR).

aulist

Use this API to list auxiliary signal models that inject signals into dc lines or FACTS devices connected to subsystem buses, along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.

change_channel_out_file

Use this API to modify the dynamic simulation channel output filename in dynamics working memory (see PSSE Program Operation Manual, activity ALTR).

change_chricn

Use this API to change the value of an element of the CHRICN array (a character ICON).

change_con

Use this API to change the value of an element of the CON array.

change_gref

Use this API to change the value of the element of the GREF (governor reference) array associated with a specified machine.

change_icon

Use this API to change the value of an element of the ICON array (an integer ICON).

change_state

Use this API to change the value of an element of the STATE array, as well as the values of the corresponding time derivative (DSTATE) and the associated memory cell used in the integration algorithm (STORE).

change_swsref

This API routine is obsolete.

change_swsref_2

Use this API to change the value of the element of the SWREF array associated with a specified switched shunt.

change_var

Use this API to change the value of an element of the VAR array.

change_vref

Use this API to change the value of the element of the VREF array associated with a specified machine.

crctrun

Use this API to run critical clearing time calculation in dynamic simulations.

dclist

Use this API to list dc line models connected to subsystem buses along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.

dlst

Use this API to tabulate specified portions of one or more of the PSSE dynamics data storage arrays.

docu

Use this API to tabulate the data associated with equipment models referenced in the user’s simulation setup.

dropmodellibrary

Use this API to remove a library from the list being searched for library models.

dropmodelprogram

Use this API to remove a model from the list of known library models; library models are added to this list the first time that they are called.

dyda

Use this API to replicate dynamics model data in the form of a Dynamics Data Input file.

dynamics_solution_param_2

Use this API to modify the dynamic simulation solution parameters (except the channel output filename) in dynamics working memory (see PSSE Program Operation Manual, activity ALTR).

dynamics_solution_params

This API routine is obsolete.

dynamicsmode

Use this API to return PSSE to dynamics mode following the use of the POWERFLOWMODE API while in dynamics mode.

dynexportcsv

Use this API to export dynamics engine and dynamics model messages that are displayed after running a dynamics simulation to CSV file format.

dyre_add

Use this API to read a Dynamics Model Raw Data File and append the model references specified in its data records to the simulation data already contained in dynamics working memory (activity DYRE,ADD).

dyre_new

Use this API to clear dynamics working memory, read a Dynamics Data File, and place the model references specified on its data records into dynamics working memory.

erun

Use this API to calculate PSSE state-space dynamic simulations of excitation system response tests.

estr_open_circuit_test

Use this API to initialize a PSSE dynamic simulation for excitation system open circuit response simulations (i.e., in preparation for activity ERUN) and to specify the Channel Output File into which the output channel values are to be recorded during the simulation.

estr_response_ratio_test

Use this API to initialize a PSSE dynamic simulation for excitation system response ratio test simulations (i.e., in preparation for activity ERUN) and to specify the Channel Output File into which the output channel values are to be recorded during the simulation.

fclist

Use this API to list FACTS device models connected to subsystem buses along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.

grun

Use this API to calculate PSSE state-space dynamic simulations of turbine-governor response tests.

gstr

Use this API to initialize a PSSE dynamic simulation for governor response simulations and to specify the Channel Output File into which the output channel values are to be recorded during the simulation.

increment_gref

Use this API to add a specified value to the value of the element of the GREF (governor reference) array associated with a specified machine.

increment_swsref

This API routine is obsolete.

increment_swsref_2

Use this API to add a specified value to the value of the element of the SWREF (switched shunt reference) array associated with a specified switched shunt.

increment_vref

Use this API to add a specified value to the value of the element of the VREF (voltage reference) array associated with a specified machine.

ldclist

Use this API to list load models connected to subsystem loads along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.

ldlist

Use this API to list load models connected to subsystem loads along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.

load_array_channel

Use this API to add an output channel containing the active or reactive component of a designated load.

mlst

Use this API to list plant models connected to subsystem machines along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.

mrun

Use this API to calculate PSSE extended term dynamic simulations.

mstr

Use this API to initialize a PSSE dynamic simulation for extended term simulations and to specify the Channel Output File into which the output channel values are to be recorded during the dynamic simulation.

powerflowmode

Use this API to switch PSSE from dynamics mode to power flow mode.

psas

Use this API to convert a PSAS Command File into a PSSE Response File.

rllist

Use this API to list line relay models connected to subsystem buses along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.

rstr

Use this API to read a dynamics Snapshot File into PSSE working memory.

run

Use this API to calculate PSSE state-space dynamic simulations.

rwdy

Use this API to replicate portions of dynamics model data in the form of either a breaker duty data file, unit inertia and governor data file, or PSSPLT relay characteristic data file.

set_chnfil_type

Use this API to set/Get the channel output file type (extended type or not).

set_disable_run

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that precludes dynamic simulation runs in the event there are fatal errors in the model data.

set_freq_relay_v_thresh

This API is used to set voltage threshold for use in frequency relay models.

set_genang

This API routine is obsolete.

set_genang_2

This API routine is obsolete.

set_genang_3

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that scans for generators for which the angle differs from the angular average by more than a specified threshold.

set_genang_subsys_flag

Use this API api for get/set the flag that is used for the subsystem defintion for performing scan for generators exceeding angle threshold.

set_genpwr

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that scans for generators for which the mechanical power differs from its electrical power by more than a specified threshold.

set_genspdev

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that scans for generators for which the speed deviation is more than a specified threshold.

set_genspdev_subsys_flag

Use this API api for get/set the flag that is used for the subsystem defintion for performing scans for generators for which the speed deviation is more than a specified threshold.

set_load_model_thresh

This API is used to set the MW, P over Q, and load bus voltage thresholds for load models.

set_model_debug_output_flag

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting for dynamic model debug output.

set_netfrq

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that models the frequency dependence of network parameters.

set_next_channel

Use this API to assign the next available channel index value.

set_next_icon

Use this API to assign the next available ICON index value.

set_next_var

Use this API to assign the next available VAR index value.

set_osscan

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that scans for out-of-step conditions using a generic relay.

set_osscan_2

This API routine is obsolete.

set_osscan_subsys_flag

Use this API api for get/set the flag that is used for the subsystem defintion for performing scans for out-of-step conditions using a generic relay.

set_relang

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that expresses the ANGLE array relative to a designated reference angle.

set_relscn

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that scans branches using a generic branch relay.

set_relscn_subsys_flag

Use this API api for get/set the flag that is used for the subsystem defintion for performing scans of branches using a generic branch relay.

set_vltscn

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting that scans buses for high or low values of voltage magnitude.

set_vltscn_subsys_flag

Use this API api for get/set the flag that is used for the subsystem definition for performing scans of buses for high or low voltage magnitudes.

set_volt_viol_subsys_flag

This API is used to set the flag to denote the bus subsystem to be used for voltage violation (voltage recovery and voltage dip) checks.

set_voltage_dip_check

This API is used to enable or disable the simulation option setting which scans buses for voltage dip (back-swing).

set_voltage_rec_check

This API is used to enable or disable the simulation option setting which scans buses for voltage recovery (primary and secondary recovery).

set_zsorce_reconcile_flag

Use this API to enable or disable the simulation option setting for automatic ZSORCE reconciliation.

size_ds

Use this API to obtain a summary of utilization in the general purpose dynamics data storage arrays as well as in the various model connection and allocation tables contained in dynamics working memory.

snap

Use this API to save PSSE dynamics working memory into a Snapshot file.

strt

This API routine is obsolete.

strt_2

This API routine is the second release of the dynamic simulation initialization function.

swslist

Use this API to list switched shunt models connected to subsystem buses along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.

trig_volt_violation_check

This API is used to trigger voltage violation (voltage recovery, voltage dip) checks.

wnlist

Use this API to list wind models connected to subsystem buses along with their storage locations in the dynamics data arrays.