Fault Analysis Operation — PSSE API Manual 35.6.0 documentation

Fault Analysis Operation¶

35.6.0

July 12, 2023

ansi

This API routine is obsolete.

ansi_2

This API routine is obsolete.

ansi_3

This API routine executes the third release of the ANSI fault calculation function.

ascc

This API routine is obsolete.

ascc_1a

This API routine is obsolete.

ascc_2

This API routine is obsolete.

ascc_3

This API is used to apply a series of faults at various locations in the working case.

ascc_scfile

This API reads ASCC short circuit results from SCFILE and produces same ASCC output report that was generated when SCFILE was created.

bkdy

Use this API to calculate and report circuit breaker interrupting duty for 3-phase faults at all buses in a specified subsystem of the working case (activity BKDY).

check_sequence_data

Use this API routine to perform data checks on the selected categories of sequence data for all buses in the working case or for all buses in a specified subsystem.

flat

This API routine is obsolete.

flat_2

This API routine is the second release of the flat conditions function.

iecs

This API routine is obsolete.

iecs_2

This API routine is obsolete.

iecs_3

This API routine is obsolete.

iecs_4

This API executes the fourth release of the IEC short circuit calculations function.

iecs_scfile

This API reads IECS short circuit results from SCFILE and produces same IECS output report that was generated when SCFILE was created.

newseq

Use this API to initialize the fault analysis data arrays, set them to default values, and set the flag indicating that sequence data is present in the working case.

sceq

Use this API to construct network equivalents of the positive and zero sequence networks and calculates source impedances at equivalent source nodes for all three sequences in preparation for the unbalanced fault analysis activities of PSSE.

scgr

This API routine is obsolete.

scmu

This API routine is obsolete.

scmu_2

Use this API to calculate simultaneous unbalances.

scop

Use this API to tabulate unbalanced fault solution output.

seqd

This API routine is obsolete.

seqd_2

Use this API routine to factorize the sequence matrices in preparation for unbalanced fault calculations SCMU and SPCB.

sequence_network_setup

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable automatic fault analysis sequence network setup.

sqex

Use this API to tabulate all fault analysis data pertaining to a specified bus.