Load Related Models — PSSE API Manual 35.6.0 documentation

Load Related Models¶

35.6.0

July 12, 2023

add_load_model

Use this API to add a load related model of a designated type to a specified load or subsystem.

change_ldmod_chricn

Use this API to change the value of a character ICON (i.e., an element of the CHRICN array) of a load related model at a specified load or subsystem.

change_ldmod_con

Use this API to change the value of a CON of a load related model at a specified load or subsystem.

change_ldmod_data

This API routine is obsolete.

change_ldmod_icon

Use this API to change the value of an integer ICON of a load related model at a specified load or subsystem.

change_ldmod_var

Use this API to change the value of a VAR of a load related model at a specified load or subsystem.

ldmod_pack

Use this API to remove entries that are marked as unused from the load model connection tables and the load model array allocation tables.

ldmod_remove

Use this API to remove a load related model of a designated type from a specified load or subsystem.

ldmod_status

Use this API to change the status of a load related model of a designated type for all subsystem loads at which it is applied.

ldmod_status2

Use this API to change the status of a load related model of a designated type at a specified load.

ldmod_unconnected

Use this API to list or remove from dynamics working memory those load related models that are assigned to loads that are not present in the current power flow working case (unconnected).

ldmod_user

Use this API to list user-written load model definitions or to remove user-written load model definitions that are not assigned to any loads (unused) from the user model definition tables.

ldmodc_pack

Use this API to remove entries that are marked as unused from the load component model connection tables.

ldmodc_remove

Use this API to remove a load component related model of a designated type from a specified load or subsystem.

ldmodc_status

Use this API to change the status of a load related model of a designated type for all subsystem loads at which it is applied.

ldmodc_unconnected

Use this API to list or remove from dynamics working memory those load Component models that are assigned to loads that are not present in the current power flow working case (unconnected).

ldmodc_user

Use this API to list user-written load component model definitions or to remove user-written load model definitions that are not assigned to any loads (unused) from the user model definition tables.