Power Flow Operation — PSSE API Manual 35.6.0 documentation

Power Flow Operation¶

35.6.0

July 12, 2023

accc

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_2

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_multiple_merge

Use this API to merge a number of AC contingency solution files (acc files) into one acc file.

accc_multiple_run_report

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_multiple_run_report_2

Use this API to report the results of up to twenty two executions of the AC Contingency Calculation function.

accc_parallel

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_parallel_2

Use this API routine to run the second release of the parallel implementation of the AC contingency calculation function (use ACCC_WITH_DSP_3 to run AC contingency calculation function serially).

accc_single_run_report

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_single_run_report_2

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_single_run_report_3

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_single_run_report_4

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_single_run_report_5

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_single_run_report_6

This API is the sixth release of the AC Contingency Report function.

accc_trip_cor

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_trip_cor_2

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_trip_cor_3

This API is the third release of the function to run AC contingency analysis with tripping simulation and corrective actions.

accc_with_cor

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_with_cor_2

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_with_cor_3

This API is the third release of function to run AC contingency analysis with corrective actions.

accc_with_dsp

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_with_dsp_2

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_with_dsp_3

Use this API to run the second release of AC contingency calculation function (ACCC, ACCC_WITH_DSP).

accc_with_trip

This API routine is obsolete.

accc_with_trip_2

Use this API to run the second version of AC contingency calculation function with a post- contingency tripping function.

accc_with_trip_parallel

Use this API to run the parallel version of AC contingency calculation function with a post- contingency tripping function (use ACCC_WITH_TRIP_2 to run the function sequentially).

accor

This API routine is obsolete.

accor_2

This API routine is obsolete.

accor_3

This API is the third release of corrective action function.

alert_output

Use this API to specify the alert device.

allow_pssuserpf

Use this API to specify or return the option to allow or disallow the loading or use of the Powerflow Customization Interface (PCI) implementation module (pssuserpf).

alph

Use this API to print an alphabetically sorted table of all buses in a specified subsystem of the working case (activity ALPH).

append_accc

Use this API to replicate system conditions of a contingency case solution, as contained in a designated Saved Case File, in the form of a Contingency Solution Output File.

apply_var_limits

Use this API to specify or return the option for the default VAR limits setting; either apply automatically, apply immediately, ignore, or apply on a specific iteration

area

This API routine is obsolete.

area_2

Use this API to tabulate area totals by area, as well as the desired area net interchange (activity AREA).

area_zone

Use this API to tabulate area totals by area, along with subtotals by zone.

arnm

This API routine is obsolete.

arnm_2

This API routine is the second release of the area renumbering function.

base_frequency

Use this API to specify or return the value of the base frequency option setting.

bgen

Use this API to convert the mismatch at boundary buses to equivalent load and/or generation (activity BGEN).

brch

This API routine is obsolete.

brch_2

Use this API to tabulate those branches where impedances or other characteristics are such that they may be detrimental to the rate of convergence of one or more of the power flow solution activities.

bsnm

Use this API to change the bus numbers of specified network buses in the working case and retain a tabulation, in file form, of bus number changes made (activity BSNM).

bus_input

Use this API to specify or return the bus input option setting, for either numbers or names.

bus_output

Use this API to specify or return the bus output option setting, for either numbers or names.

bus_size_level

Use this API to specify or return the value of the PSSE size level option setting to a multiple of 1,000 between 1,000 and 200,000.

busn

Use this API to tabulate unused bus numbers within a specified bus number range (activity BUSN).

ca_iterations

Use this API to specify or return the contingency iterations limit setting.

case

Use this API to open a PSSE Saved Case file and transfers its data into the PSSE working case.

check_powerflow_data

Use this API routine to perform data checks on the selected categories of powerflow data for all buses in the working case or for all buses in a specified subsystem.

checkvoltagelimits

Use this API to tabulate those buses where voltage magnitude is beyond their normal or emergency voltage limits.

chkcntduplicon

Check duplicate labels in Contingengy (CON) file.

chkcntduplidfx

Check duplicate labels in DFAX file.

close_powerflow

Removes the current powerflow working case from PSSE’s working memory.

close_report

Sets the report output device to the standard output and sets the command line to request device selection for individual reporting activities (Activity CLOS).

cmpr

Use this API to tabulate certain case totals, as contained in the working case, with those of a designated Saved Case (activity CMPR).

cntb

Use this API to tabulate the voltage setpoints and desired voltage bands of voltage-controlling equipment in the working case (activity CNTB).

cong

Use this API to convert generators from their power flow representation in preparation for switching studies and dynamic simulations (activity CONG).

conl

Use this API to convert the constant MVA load for a specified grouping of network loads to a specified mixture of the constant MVA, constant current, and constant admittance load characteristics (activity CONL).

connectivity_check

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable the solution connectivity checking option setting.

control_area_interchange

Use this API to to specify or return the area interchange control option setting to disabled, or enabled with tie lines only, or enabled with tie lines and loads.

csv_to_rawx

Use this API to import a rawx (extended raw data) data table from a CSV (comma-separated values) file.

csv_to_rawx_with_metamodel

Use this API to import a rawx (extended raw data) data table from a CSV (comma-separated values) file with metamodel.

dc_tap_adjustment

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable the dc tap adjustment option setting.

dccc

This API routine is obsolete.

dccc_2

Use this API to run contingency case solutions using a linear network (dc) model (activity DCCC).

dccor

Use this API to apply corrective actions to the base case using linear programming methods.

dccor_2

Use this API to apply corrective actions to the base case using linear programming methods.

dclf

This API routine is obsolete.

dclf_2

Use this API routine to apply the dc analogy network solution algorithm to the network modeled in the working case (activity DCLF).

dcpscopf

This API is the DC based Preventive Security Constrained Optimal Power Flow solution (DCPSCOPF).

deltmpfiles

Delete closed temporary files.

dfax

This API routine is obsolete.

dfax_2

Use this API to construct a Distribution Factor Data File (activity DFAX).

dfax_contingency

Use this API to combine one contingency in the first Distribution Factor file with one contingency in the second Distribution Factor file and so on, till specified contingency level is reached, to create multiple event contingencies and then export resulting contingencies to user defined report device.

dfti

Use this API to compare tie lines, as contained in the working case, with those of a designated Saved Case (activity DFTI).

diff

Use this API to compare specified power flow data and solution results, as contained in the working case, with those of a designated Saved Case (activity DIFF).

dscn

Use this API to electrically disconnect a bus (activity DSCN).

duplicate_cntlabel_check

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable the duplicated contingency labels check     when Distribution Factor Data File (.dfx) or Contingency Description Data File (.con) files are used.

ecdi

Use this API to place machines in a specified subsystem on- or off-line to satisfy a given subsystem minimum capacity; the in-service machines in the subsystem are then dispatched on the basis of incremental cost to meet a specified total subsystem generation (activity ECDI).

echo

Use this API to enable or disable response echoing (activity ECHO).

eeqv

Use this API to construct an electrical equivalent of a specified subsystem of the working case (activity EEQV).

eqrd

Use this API to build an electrical equivalent of radial and, optionally, two-point Type 1 buses in a specified subsystem of the working case (activity EQRD).

exam

Use this API to tabulate all power flow data pertaining to a specified bus (activity EXAM).

fact

Use this API to factorize the network admittance matrix in preparation for switching studies and dynamic simulations (activity FACT).

fdns

Use this API to apply the fixed slope decoupled Newton-Raphson power flow calculation (activity FDNS).

file_overwrite

Use this API to specify or return the option to set the file overwrite option setting to either ask first or overwrite.

find

Use this API to tabulate a list of buses matching a partial extended bus name (activity FIND).

flat_start

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable the voltage flat start option setting.

fnsl

Use this API to apply the Newton-Raphson power flow calculation (activity FNSL).

gcap

This API routine is obsolete.

gcap_2

Use this API to print a report of machine loading and reactive power limit data (activity GCAP).

gdif

Use this API to calculate differences between the working case and a designated Saved Case (activity GDIF).

gendsp

Use this API to impose a contingency specified in the Distribution Factor Data file and apply the generation dispatch algorithm used in contingency analysis on the working case.

gendsp_2

Use this API to impose a contingency specified in the Distribution Factor Data file and apply the generation dispatch algorithm used in contingency analysis on the working case.

gens

Use this API to tabulate the loading and voltage conditions at plant buses (activity GENS).

geol

Use this API to tabulate the loading and voltage conditions at the generator terminals for online machines at Type 2 and 3 buses in the working case (activity GEOL).

getcontingencysavedcase

Use this API routine to place the working case in the form of a specified system condition as calculated during a previous run of one of the members of the the AC contingency calculation family.

gic_pf

Add activity GIC calculated Mvar Qloss in scaled manner to the working case to arrive at the converged power flow solution.

gnestatus

Use this API to specify or return the status of a GNE device.

gnet

Use this API to change in-service generation to negative MVA load at all Type 2 and 3 buses in the subsystem specified by the user.

imnet

Use this API routine to change the status of induction machines that are in-service to out-of- service, and to replace the power flowing from the network into the machine with constant power load.

imoutage

Use this API routine to change the status of induction machines that are in-service, but that have been set to the “stalled” (for motors) or “tripped” (for generators) state by the power flow solution, to out-of-service.

impc

Use this API to calculate the impact of transaction events on MW flows using a linear network (dc) model.

implement_transfer

This API routine is obsolete.

implement_transfer_2

Use this API routine to apply a specified transfer using the same transfer dispatch methods that are available in the PV analysis calculation engine.

inlf

This API routine is obsolete.

inlf_2

Use this API routine to run the second release of the inertial and governor response power flow calculation.

inta

Use this API to summarize tie flows between an interchange area and all other areas in the working case.

intz

Use this API to summarize tie flows between each zone and all other zones in the working case.

isolate_levels

Use this API to specify or return the maximum number of levels to go outward when isolating an element by breaker.

join

The API combines two buses into a single bus.

lamp

Use this API to print power flow solution output, including loadings in amps, in a traditional power flow report format.

line_shunt_reporting

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable the line shunt reporting.

lines_per_page

Use this API to specify or return the page length limits for the four output devices; also retrieve device names.

lines_per_page_one_device

Use this API to specify or return the page length limit and device name for one of the four output devices.

list

Use this API routine to tabulate the power flow working case in a form suitable for problem data documentation.

listcontingencysavedcases

Use this API routine to obtain a report listing some or all of the system conditions preserved in a ZIP Archive Output File that was created during a previous run of one of the members of the the AC contingency calculation family.

llrf

Use this API to apply the line loading relief calculation using a linear network (dc) model.

load_reduction

Use this API to tabulate the amount of load reduction in a specified subsystem due to the voltage at the bus to which the load is connected being below PQBRAK (for constant MVA load) or 0.5 (for constant current load.

lout

Use this API to print the power flow solution results in a traditional power flow report format.

ltap

Use this API to insert a bus at a designated location along a line.

maccc

This API routine is obsolete.

maccc_2

Use this API to run the second release of multiple level contingency analysis.

maccc_3

Use this API to run the third release of multiple level contingency analysis.

maccc_parallel

Use this API to run the multiple level contingency analysis in parallel when the number of contingency processors in Program Settings is greater than 1.

maccc_parallel_2

Use this API to run the multiple level contingency analysis in parallel when the number of contingency processors in Program Settings is greater than 1.

maccc_trip_cor

This API routine is obsolete.

maccc_trip_cor_2

This API routine is obsolete.

maccc_trip_cor_3

This API is the third release of function to run multiple AC contingency analysis with tripping simulations and corrective actions.

maccc_trip_cor_4

This API is the third release of function to run multiple AC contingency analysis with tripping simulations and corrective actions.

maccc_with_cor

This API routine is obsolete.

maccc_with_cor_2

This API routine is obsolete.

maccc_with_cor_3

This API is the third release of function to run multiple AC contingency analysis with corrective actions.

maccc_with_cor_4

This API is the third release of function to run multiple AC contingency analysis with corrective actions.

maccc_with_trip

This API routine is obsolete.

maccc_with_trip_2

Use this API to run the second version of multiple level contingency analysis with tripping simulation.

maccc_with_trip_3

Use this API to run the second version of multiple level contingency analysis with tripping simulation.

maccc_with_trip_parallel

Use this API to run the multiple level contingency analysis with tripping simulation in parallel when the number of contingency processors in Program Settings is greater than 1.

maccc_with_trip_parallel_2

Use this API to run the multiple level contingency analysis with tripping simulation in parallel when the number of contingency processors in Program Settings is greater than 1.

matrix_growth_factor

Use this API to specify or return the value of the matrix growth factor option setting.

mcre

Use this API to read a Machine Impedance Data File and add the data specified in it to the working case.

modr

Use this API to uniformly increase or decrease the line resistances of in-service nontransformer branches.

mov_alpha

Use this API to specify or return the value of the MOV iteration ALPHA option setting.

mov_iterations

Use this API to specify or return the value of the maximum MOV iterations option setting.

mov_tolerance

Use this API to specify or return the value of the MOV iteration tolerance option setting.

move3wnd

Use this API to disconnect the third bus of a specified three-winding transformer from the bus to which it is currently connected, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

movebrn

Use this API to disconnect the to bus of a specified non-transformer branch or two-winding transformer from the bus to which it is currently connected, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

moveindmac

Use this API routine to disconnect the specified induction machine from the bus to which it is currently connected, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

moveindmacs

Use this API routine to disconnect all of the induction machines at the specified bus, and reconnect them to a designated bus.

moveload

Use this API to disconnect the specified load from the bus to which it is currently connected, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

moveloads

Use this API to disconnect all of the load from the specified bus, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

movemac

Use this API to disconnect the specified machine from the bus to which it is currently connected, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

moveplnt

Use this API to disconnect all of the machines from the specified bus, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

moveshunt

Use this API to disconnect the specified fixed shunt from the bus to which it is currently connected, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

moveshunts

Use this API to disconnect all of the fixed shunts from the specified bus and reconnect them to a designated bus.

movesws

This API routine is obsolete.

moveswshunt

Use this API to disconnect the specified switched shunt from the bus to which it is currently connected, and reconnect it to a designated bus.

moveswshunts

Use this API to disconnect all of the switched shunts from the specified bus and reconnect them to a designated bus.

mslv

Use this API to apply the modified Gauss-Seidel power flow calculation.

msum

Use this API to print a summary of mileage by owner.

mtdc

Use this API to produce a report of bus voltages and flows for each in-service multi-terminal dc line.

multisection_reporting

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable multi-section line reporting.

mwmi

Use this API to apply the MAPP MW-mile calculation .

mwomwmsf

Use this API to tabulate generation (MW) on MW-mile shift factors for a specified transaction event.

mwomwosf

Use this API to tabulate generation (MW) on MW-ohm shift factors for a specified transaction event.

n11_accc

This API routine is obsolete.

n11_accc_2

This API is the second release of N-1-1 contingency analysis solution.

n11_accc_3

This API is the second release of N-1-1 contingency analysis solution.

n11_accc_parallel

Use this API to run the N-1-1 contingency analysis in parallel when the number of contingency processors in Program Settings is greater than 1.

n11_accc_parallel_2

Use this API to run the N-1-1 contingency analysis in parallel when the number of contingency processors in Program Settings is greater than 1.

n11_accc_pscopf

This API routine is obsolete.

n11_accc_pscopf_2

The API is the second release of N-1-1 contingency analysis solution in either corrective mode or security constrained optimal power flow mode (SCOPF).

n11_accc_pscopf_3

The API is the second release of N-1-1 contingency analysis solution in either corrective mode or security constrained optimal power flow mode (SCOPF).

netg

Use this API to change the in-service generation to negative MVA load at all Type 2 and 3 buses except those in the subsystem specified by the user.

new_dimension

Use this API to reset PSSE to an increased bus size level.

newcas

This API routine is obsolete.

newcase_2

This API is the second release of the function used to initialize a new power flow case.

newton_tolerance

Use this API to specify or return the value of the default Newton-Raphson convergence tolerance.

non_divergent

Use this API to specify or return the option to specify or return the option to enable or disable the non-divergent Newton power flow solution.

non_trans_percent_units

Use this API to set the non-transformer branch percent units option setting to either MVA or current expressed as MVA.

nsol

Use this API to apply the decoupled Newton-Raphson power flow calculation.

number_threads

Use this API to specify or return the number of processors available for parallel operations.

ordr

Use this API to calculate a sparsity preserving ordering of buses in preparation for the processing of network matrices.

otdf

Use this API to tabulate vectors of distribution factors using a linear network (dc) model.

output_y_matrix

Use this API to display the network admittance matrix for a subsystem of the working case in the form of a list of matrix terms.

outs

Use this API to tabulate those components in the working case that are removed from service.

ownm

This API routine is obsolete.

ownm_2

This API routine is obsolete.

ownm_3

This API routine is the third release of the owner renumbering function.

ownr

Use this API to tabulate owner totals by owner.

path

Use this API to specify a directory pathname.

phase_shift_adjustment

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable the phase shift adjustment.

poly

Use this API to calculate interchange limits of a study system against two opposing systems using a linear network (dc) model.

pout

Use this API to print the power flow solution results with boundary condition and flow information on the left side of the report and other information on the right side.

power_output

Use this API to specify or return the option to display power output in either MVA or kVA.

pp_accc

Use this API to report the results of the AC contingency calculation function.

pp_accc_multi_case

This API routine is obsolete.

print_outaged_branches

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable whether to print out-of- service branches.

print_winding_buses

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable whether to print winding “to” buses of three-winding transformers.

progress_output

Use this API to specify the progress output device.

prompt_output

Use this API to specify the prompt output device.

prti

Use this API to print the 16 line long title.

pscopf

This API routine is obsolete.

pscopf_2

This API is the second release of Preventive Security Constrained Optimal Power Flow solution (PSCOPF).

pseb

Use this API to convert a PSEB command file into a PSSE response file.

pssehalt

This API routine is obsolete.

pssehalt_2

Use this API to end the operation of PSSE, closes all associated files and returns to the calling application.

pv_engine

This API routine is obsolete.

pv_engine_1a

This API routine is obsolete.

pv_engine_2

This API routine is obsolete.

pv_engine_3

This API routine is obsolete.

pv_engine_4

This API routine is obsolete.

pv_engine_5

This API routine is obsolete.

pv_engine_6

Use this API routine to run the PV analysis calculation engine.

qv_engine

This API routine is obsolete.

qv_engine_2

This API routine is obsolete.

qv_engine_3

This API routine is obsolete.

qv_engine_4

Use this API routine to run the QV analysis calculation engine.

rank

Use this API to estimate the severity of designated single branch outage contingencies and builds a contingency solution output file with contingencies specified in decreasing order of their estimated severities.

rank_brn_and_mac

Use this API to estimate the severity of designated single element outage contingencies and builds a contingency description data file with contingencies specified in decreasing order of their estimated severities.

rate

This API routine is obsolete.

rate_2

Use this API to check branch loadings.

rating_set

Use this API to specify or return the current rating set, from 1 to 12.

rawd

This API routine is obsolete.

rawd_2

Use this API to replicate the working case in the form of a power flow raw data file.

rawdx

This API routine is obsolete.

rawx_to_csv

Use this API to export rawx (extended raw data) table to a CSV (comma-separated values) file.

rdch

Use this API to read power flow change data into the working case.

rdchrawversion

Use this API to read a Power Flow Change Raw Data File into the working case.

rdeq

Use this API to build an electrical equivalent of radial and, optionally, two-point Type 1 buses outside of a specified subsystem of the working case.

read

Use this API to read a power flow raw data file and add all the data specified in it to the working case.

readcapcurves

Use this API to read data contained in a Machine Capability Curve Data File into the working case.

readrawversion

Use this API to read a power flow raw data file and add all the data specified in it to the working case.

readrawx

Use this API to read an extended raw data file and add all the data specified to the working case.

readsub

Use this API to read a power flow raw data file and add subsystem data specified in it to the working case.

readsubrawversion

Use this API to read a power flow raw data file and add subsystem data specified in it to the working case.

readx

This API routine is obsolete.

recn

Use this API to electrically reconnect a bus.

regb

Use this API to tabulate those buses where voltages are controlled by generation, switched shunts, and/or other voltage controlling equipment.

relind

This API routine is obsolete.

relind_2

Use this API to run probabilistic reliability assessment for transmission systems.

remm

Use this API to read transaction event data from a transactions raw data file and add it to PSSE working memory.

report_output

Use this API to specify the report output device.

resq

Use this API to read sequence data from a sequence data file and add it to the working case.

resqversion

Use this API to read a network sequence data file and add all the data specified in it to the working case.

result_table_output

Use this API to get and set the default tabular output.

reti

Use this API to read the long title from an input file into the working case.

retry_pssuserpf

Use this API to allow the loading or use of the Powerflow Customization Interface (PCI) implementation module (pssuserpf) after a failure.

rev29_names

Use this API to set the extended bus name input format to either the PSSE-29 or PSSE-30 format.

rnfi

Use this API to reproduce the results of a working case bus renumbering operation in auxiliary data input files.

rsol

Use this API to perform a robust power flow solution (activity RSOL).

runlastsolution

Use this API to run the last known power flow solution.

rwcm

Use this API to replicate the working case in IEEE common tape format.

rwma

Use this API to replicate machine parametric data from the working case in the form of a machine impedance data file.

rwmm

Use this API to replicate transaction event data in the form of a transactions data file.

rwsq

This API routine is obsolete.

rwsq_2

Use this API to replicate the sequence data contained in the working case in the form of a sequence data file.

save

Use this API to save the PSSE working case in a saved case file.

scal

This API routine is obsolete.

scal_2

This API routine is obsolete.

scal_3

This API routine is obsolete.

scal_4

Use this API routine to uniformly increase or decrease any or all specified bus quantities for a specified group of buses.

sensitivity_flow

This API is used to calculate sensitivity factors of a branch flow to MW power at buses, MW power at generator buses, MW at load buses, phase angle of phase shifters, tap postion of tap changing transformers as well as admittance of switched shunts:

sensitivity_flows

This API is used to calculate sensitivity factors of flows on the branches in a subsystem to MW power at buses, MW power at generator buses, MW power at load buses, phase angle of phase shifters, tap postion of tap changing transformers as well as admittance of switched shunts.

sensitivity_interface

This API is used to calculate sensitivity factors of  an interface flow to MW power at buses, MW power at generator buses, MW power at load buses, phase angle of phase shifters, tap position of tap changing transformers as well as admittance of switched shunts.

sensitivity_voltage

This API is used to calculate sensitivity factors of a bus voltage to MW and MVar power at buses, MW power at generator buses, MW and MVar at load buses, phase angle of phase shifters, tap postion of tap changing transformers as well as admittance of switched shunts.

sensitivity_voltages

This API is used to calculate sensitivity factors of  bus voltages in a subsystem to MW and MVar power at buses, MW power at generator buses, MW and MVar at load buses, phase angle of phase shifters, tap postion of tap changing transformers as well as admittance of switched shunts.

set_input_dev

Use this API to set the terminal input device to a file.

set_progress_verbose

Use this API to to set the option progress message verbose value.

shnt

Use this API to tabulate fixed and/or switched bus shunts contained in the working case.

short_circuit_coordinates

Use this API to specify or return the option to set the fault analysis voltage and current output coordinates to either rectangular or polar coordinates.

short_circuit_modeling

Use this API to specify or return the option for the fault analysis modeling setting; either normal three-phase or center tapped two-phase.

short_circuit_units

Use this API to specify or return the option to set the fault analysis voltage and current output units to either per unit or physical units.

short_circuit_warning

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable the fault analysis warning option setting.

short_circuit_z_coordinates

Use this API to specify or return the option to set the fault analysis output impedance coordinates to either rectangular or polar coordinates.

short_circuit_z_units

Use this API to specify or return the option to set the fault analysis output impedance units to either per unit or ohms.

show

Use this API to tabulate summaries of Saved Case and/or Snapshot Files.

showtable

Directs a report table to output console.

showtablebyindex

This API routine was first introduced in release 35.0.0.

size

Use this API to obtain a summary of the number of components in the working case (activity SIZE).

solv

Use this API to apply the Gauss-Seidel power flow calculation.

spcb

Use this API to calculate positive sequence equivalents of branch unbalances.

spil

Use this API to calculate transmission interchange limits using a linear network (dc) model.

splt

Use this API to add a bus to the working case and place a zero impedance line between bus BUS and the new bus.

sqli

Use this API to tabulate the sequence data in a form suitable for problem data documentation.

sraind

Use this API to run the substation reliability analysis.

stop

This API routine is obsolete.

stop_2

Use this API to end the operation of PSSE.

subs

Use this API to summarize conditions in the working case by tabulating the conditions at each swing system bus, conditions at each area slack area bus, number of components, generation/ load/shunt totals, and loss/line shunt/charging totals by voltage levels.

switched_shunt_adjustment

Use this API to specify or return the option to enable or disable switched shunt adjustment.

tap_adjustment

Use this API to specify or return the option for the default tap adjustment setting; either disabled, stepping or direct.

text

This API does nothing.

tflg

Use this API to set or reset the adjustment control mode flags for all automatically adjustable transformers contained in the specified subsystem.

ties

Use this API to tabulate the flows on all area tie lines, with tie flows grouped by area.

tiez

Use this API to tabulate the flows on all zone tie lines, with tie flows grouped by zone.

time

Use this API to tabulate timing statistics.

tlst

Use this API to tabulate those transformers in the working case where off-nominal turns ratio or phase shift angle may be adjusted by the power flow solution activities.

tltg

Use this API to calculate transmission interchange limits using a linear network (dc) model.

tpch

Use this API to check the adjustment data associated with voltage or flow controlling transformers.

transformer_percent_units

Use this API to specify or return the option to set the transformer percent units to either MVA or current expressed as MVA.

transmission_line_units

Use this API to to specify or return the option set the transmission line units to either per unit or ohms.

tree

Use this API to check for the existence of in-service ac islands that do not contain a Type 3 (swing) bus.

tspfprofilecurvevalue

Use this API to return real parameters of Time Series Power Flow profile data.

tysl

Use this API to run switching study network solutions.

user

Use this API to run the user-written activity, subroutine USERAC.

vamm

Use this API to tabulate the vector absolute MW-mile report.

vamo

Use this API to tabulate the vector absolute MW-ohm report.

vchk

Use this API to tabulate those buses where voltage magnitude is outside a specified range.

voltage_input

Use this API to specify or return the voltage input option setting; either per unit or kV.

voltage_output

Use this API to specify or return the voltage output option setting; either per unit or kV.

vsmo

Use this API to tabulate the vector MW-ohm report.

write_options_file

Use this API to save the present values of the PSSE-25 program option settings to the file psse.opt.

writecapcurves

Use this API to write the capability curve data in the working case in the form of a Capability Curve Raw Data File.

writerawversion

Use this API to replicate the working case in the form of power flow raw data file compatible with PSSE 15 or later.

writerawx

Use this API to write an extended raw data file from data in the current working case.

writerawxsubsys

Use this API to write an extended raw data file from data in the current working case, specifying a subsystem.

writeseqversion

This API routine is obsolete.

writeseqversion_2

Use this API to replicate the working case in the form of a network sequence data file compatible with PSSE 27 or later.

xeqv

Use this API to build an electrical equivalent of the portion of the working case outside of a specified subsystem of the working case.

zone

This API routine is obsolete.

zone_2

Use this API to tabulate zone totals by zone.

zone_area

Use this API to tabulate zone totals by zone, along with subtotals by area.

zonm

This API routine is obsolete.

zonm_2

Use this API routine to reassign the buses, loads and/or induction machines in a specified subsystem of the working case from their original zone to a designated zone.