Scenarios — PSSE API Manual 35.6.0 documentation

Scenarios¶

35.6.0

July 12, 2023

closescenariofile

This API routine is obsolete.

newscenariofile

This API routine is obsolete.

openscenariofile

This API routine is obsolete.

savescenariofile

This API routine is obsolete.

scenarioclose

Use this API to close the currently open Scenario.

scenariocopyfile

Use this API to copy a file from one group to another group.

scenariofileadd

Use this API to add a file to the specified group.

scenariofilecount

Use this API to retrieve the number of files in a specified group in the Scenario.

scenariofilegetattrs

Use this API to retrieve the attributes of the specified file.

scenariofilegetcomments

Use this API to retrieve the comments for the specified file.

scenariofilelengthcomments

Use this API to determine the buffer size needed to hold the comments for the specified file.

scenariofilelist

Use this API to retrieve the list of files in the specified group.

scenariofileremove

Use this API to remove a file from the specified group.

scenariofilerename

Use this API to rename one of the files in the Scenario.

scenariofilesetattrs

Use this API to modify the attributes of the specified file.

scenariofilesetcomments

Use this API to define or modify the comments for the specified file.

scenariogetattrs

Use this API to retrieve the attributes of the Scenario.

scenariogetcomments

Use this API to retrieve the Scenario comments.

scenariogetopt

Use this API to retrieve the Scenario options.

scenariogroupadd

Use this API to add a group to the Scenario.

scenariogroupcount

Use this API to retrieve the number of groups in the Scenario.

scenariogroupgetcomments

Use this API to retrieve the comments for the specified group.

scenariogrouplengthcomments

Use this API to determine the buffer size needed to hold the comments for the specified group.

scenariogrouplist

Use this API to retrieve the list of groups in the Scenario.

scenariogroupopen

Use this API to add a group to the Scenario.

scenariogroupremove

Use this API to remove a group from the Scenario.

scenariogrouprename

Use this API to rename one of the groups in the Scenario.

scenariogroupsetcomments

Use this API to define or modify the comments for the specified group.

scenarioisdirty

Use this API to determine if there are any unsaved changes in the current Scenario.

scenarioisvalid

Use this API to determine if there is a valid Scenario in memory.

scenariolengthcomments

Use this API to determine the buffer size needed to hold the current Scenario comments.

scenariomodelgroup

Use this API to create a new group that is identical to another group.

scenariomovefile

Use this API to move a file from one group to another group.

scenarionew

Use this API to create a new Scenario.

scenarioopen

Use this API to open a previously created Scenario.

scenariosave

Use this API to save the currently open Scenario.

scenariosetattrs

Use this API to modify the root path and startup group attributes of the Scenario.

scenariosetcomments

Use this API to define or modify the Scenario comments.

scenariosetopt

Use this API to modify the Scenario options.

scenariotrackfileadd

Use this API to add the files currently being tracked.

scenariotrackfilelist

Use this API to retrieve the list of files being tracked.

scenariotrackfilenum

Use this API to retrieve the current number of files being tracked.

scenariounzip

Use this API to unzip a zipped Scenario.

scenariounzipproblems

Use this API to retrieve the problems that occurred during the last unzip attempt.

scenariounzipsolutions

Use this API to submit potential solutions to the problems that occurred during the last unzip attempt.

scenariozip

Use this API to zip up the current Scenario.

scenariozipactive

Use this API to determine if the Scenario is currently in Zip Mode.

scenariozipopen

Use this API to open a zipped Scenario.

scenariozipsave

This API routine was first introduced in release 33.2.0.