Single Element Data — PSSE API Manual 35.6.0 documentation

Single Element Data¶

35.6.0

July 12, 2023

apierrstr

Use this API to return the message string associated with a specific error code returned from a recordable PSSE API routine.

ardat

Use this API to return area totals.

aredat

Use this API to return real area data items.

areint

Use this API to return integer area data items.

arenam

Use this API to return the area name.

arenum

Use this API to return the area number.

areuse

Use this API to indicate if an area is in use.

aritoj

Use this API to return the interchange between two areas.

brncur

This API routine is obsolete.

brndat

Use this API to return real branch parameters.

brndt2

Use this API to return complex positive and zero sequence parameters for non-transformer branches, and complex positive sequence parameters for transformer branches.

brnflo

Use this API to return the complex branch flow (P+jQ) as calculated at IBUS.

brnint

Use this API to return integer branch parameters.

brnmsc

Use this API to return real branch flow values.

brnmva

This API routine is obsolete.

brnnam

Use this API to return the name of an AC branch.

brnstt

This API routine is obsolete.

bsysisdef

Use this API to check whether a bus subsystem has been defined for a given subsystem ID.

busdat

Use this API to return real bus values.

busdt1

Use this API to return complex bus parameters as MVA.

busdt2

Use this API to return complex bus parameters.

busexs

Use this API to check for the existence of a specified bus.

busint

Use this API to return integer bus parameters.

busmsm

Use this API to return complex bus mismatch.

busordpos

Use this API to return the ordinal position of the specified bus or bus section in the numerically ordered list of non-star point buses (i.e., star point buses are excluded).

bussectdat

Use this API routine to return real bus section values.

bussectdt1

Use this API routine to return complex bus section parameters as MVA.

bussectdt2

Use this API routine to return complex bus section parameters.

bussectexs

Use this API routine to check for the existence of a specified bus section.

bussectint

Use this API routine to return real bus section values.

cctmdlnam_2dco

Use this API to return model name of CCT 2-terminal dc line other models.

cctmdlnam_2wtd

Use this API to return model name of the CCT 2-winding transformer device model.

cctmdlnam_3wtd

Use this API to return model name of the CCT 3-winding transformer device model.

cctmdlnam_brnd

Use this API to return model name of the CCT branch device model.

cctmdlnam_brno

Use this API to return model name of the CCT branch other model.

cctmdlnam_buso

Use this API to return model name of CCT Bus other models.

cctmdlnam_mcno

Use this API to return model name of the CCT machine other models.

cctmdlnam_mcnp

Use this API to return model name of the CCT machine protection models.

cctmdlnam_msco

Use this API to return model name of the CCT Miscellaneous other model.

cctmdlnam_swso_2

Use this API to return model name of the CCT switched shunt other type models.

cctmind_2dco

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT 2-terminal dc line other models.

cctmind_2wtd

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT 2-winding transformer device models.

cctmind_3wtd

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT 3-winding transformer device models.

cctmind_brnd

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT branch device models.

cctmind_brno

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT branch other models.

cctmind_buso

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT Bus other models.

cctmind_mcno

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT machine other models.

cctmind_mcnp

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT machine protection models.

cctmind_msco

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT Miscellaneous other models.

cctmind_swso

This API routine is obsolete.

cctmind_swso_2

Use this API to return starting array indices and status of CCT Switched Shunt other models.

chktre

Use this API to check for Type 4 (or greater) buses with in-service branches connected to them.

chnval

Use this API to return the present value of the simulation variable assigned to a specified output channel.

dc2auxmind

Use this API to return the starting array indices and status of auxiliary signal model associated with 2-terminal dc line for the specified signal index.

dc2auxmnam

Use this API to return the auxiliary signal model name associated with a 2-terminal dc line for the specified auxiliary signal index.

dc2dat

This API routine is obsolete.

dc2dat_2

This API is the second release of the API that returns real two-terminal dc line quantities.

dc2int

This API routine is obsolete.

dc2int_2

This API is the second release of the API that returns integer two-terminal dc line quantities.

dc2mind

Use this API to return 2-terminal dc line model starting array indices and status.

dc2mnam

Use this API to return 2-terminal dc line model name.

dcnauxmind

Use this API to return the starting array indices and status of auxiliary signal model associated with N-terminal dc line for the specified signal index.

dcnauxmnam

Use this API to return the auxiliary signal model name associated with a N-terminal dc line for the specified auxiliary signal index.

dcncin

This API routine is obsolete.

dcncin_2

This API is the second release of the API that returns integer multi-terminal dc line converter quantities.

dcndat

This API routine is obsolete.

dcndat_2

This API is the second release of the API that returns real multi-terminal dc line quantities.

dcnint

This API routine is obsolete.

dcnint_2

This API is the second release of the API that returns integer multi-terminal dc line quantities.

dcnmind

Use this API to return N-terminal dc line model starting array indices and status.

dcnmnam

Use this API to return N-terminal dc line model name.

dscval

Use this API to return dynamics character array values.

dsival

Use this API to return dynamics integer array values.

dsrval

Use this API to return dynamics real values.

fcdauxmind

Use this API to return the starting array indices and status of auxiliary signal model associated with FACTS device for the specified signal index.

fcdauxmnam

Use this API to return the auxiliary signal model name associated with a FACTS device for the specified auxiliary signal index.

fcddat

This API routine is obsolete.

fcddat_2

This API is the second release of the API that returns FACTS device real quantities.

fcdint

This API routine is obsolete.

fcdint_2

This API is the second release of the API that returns FACTS device integer quantities.

fcdmind

Use this API to return FACTS device model starting array indices and status.

fcdmnam

Use this API to return FACTS device model name.

fxsdt1

Use this API to return the magnitude of a specified fixed bus shunt.

fxsdt2

Use this API to return complex fixed bus shunt.

fxsint

Use this API to return integer quantities of the specified fixed bus shunt.

gencnv

Use this API to return a flag indicating whether generators are converted.

gendat

Use this API to return plant total power output.

gendt1

Returns total plant power output in MVA.

gensectdat

Use this API routine to return a bus section’s plant total power output.

gensectdt1

Use this API routine to return a bus section’s total plant power output in MVA.

get_mstate

Use this API to return the MSTATE value.

gethomepath

Use this API to retrieve a user’s HOMEPATH directory.

gnechr

Use this API routine to return character quantities of a specified GNE device.

gnedat

Use this API routine to return real quantities of a specified GNE device.

gneint

Use this API routine to return integer quantities of a specified GNE device.

inddt1

Use this API routine to return real induction machine quantities.

inddt2

Use this API routine to return complex induction machine quantities.

indint

Use this API routine to return integer induction machine quantities.

ini2dc

Initializes the two-terminal dc line fetching routine ‘NXT2DC’ for retrieving two-terminal dc lines in dc line name alphabetical order.

inibrn

Initializes the branch fetching routine ‘NXTBRN’ or ‘NXTBRN3’ for returning branches connected to IBUS.

inibrn_2

Initializes the branch fetching routine ‘NXTBRN_2’ or ‘NXTBRN3_2’ for returning branches connected to bus sections described by IBUS and INODE.

inibrx

Initializes the branch fetching routine, ‘NXTBRN’ or ‘NXTBRN3’ for returning branches connected to IBUS.

inibrx_2

Initializes the branch fetching routine, ‘NXTBRN_2’ or ‘NXTBRN3_2’ for returning branches connected to IBUS.

inibus

Initializes the bus fetching routine ‘NXTBUS’ for retrieving buses in ascending numerical order.

inibus_2

Initializes the bus fetching routine ‘NXTBUS_2’ for retrieving buses in ascending numerical order.

inibux

Initializes the bus fetching routine ‘NXTBUS’ for retrieving buses in ascending numerical order.

inifax

Initializes the FACTS device fetching routine ‘NXTFAX’ for retrieving FACTS devices in FACTS device name alphabetical order.

inifxs

Initializes the fixed bus shunt fetching routine ‘NXTFXS’ for returning fixed shunts attached to bus IBUS.

iniind

Initializes induction machine fetching routine ‘NXTIND’ for returning induction machines attached to IBUS.

inilod

Initializes load fetching routine ‘NXTLOD’ for returning loads attached to IBUS.

inimac

Initializes machine fetching routine ‘NXTMAC’ for returning machines attached to IBUS.

inimdc

Initializes the multi-terminal dc line fetching routine ‘NXTMDC’ for retrieving multi-terminal dc lines in dc line name alphabetical order.

inimsl

Initializes the multi-section line member fetching routine ‘NXTMSL’ for retrieving lines that are sections of the specified multi-section line from IBUS to JBUS.

ininam

Initializes the bus fetching routine ‘NXTBUS’ for retrieving buses in ascending alphabetical order.

ininam_2

Initializes the bus fetching routine ‘NXTBUS_2’ for retrieving buses in ascending alphabetical order.

ininax

Initializes the bus fetching routine ‘NXTBUS’ for retrieving buses in ascending alphabetical order.

inistabussect

Use this API routine to initialize the bus section fetching routine ‘NXTSTABUSSECT’ for retrieving the bus sections in a substation.

inistanode

Use this API routine to initialize the node fetching routine ‘NXTSTANODE’ for retrieving the nodes in a sub-station.

inistaswdev

Use this API routine to initialize the switching device fetching routine ‘NXTSTASWDEV’ for retrieving the switching devices in a substation.

inisws

Initializes the switched shunt fetching routine ‘NXTSWS’ for returning switched shunts attached to bus IBUS.

initie

Initializes the tie branch fetching routine ‘NXTTIE’ or ‘NXTTIE3’ for returning tie branches from area IAR.

initix

Initializes the tie branch fetching routine ‘NXTTIE’ or ‘NXTTIE3’ for returning tie branches from area IAR.

inivsc

Initializes the VSC dc line fetching routine ‘NXTVSC’ for retrieving VSC dc lines in dc line name alphabetical order.

island

Trips in-service branches connected to Type 4 (or greater) buses, and disconnects islands not containing a swing bus.

iterat

Use this API to return the number of iterations used in the last solution attempt.

lmodind

Returns load-related model starting array indices and status.

lmodnam

Returns load-related model name.

lodcnv

This obsolete API always returns a 0.

loddt1

Returns load quantities in MVA.

loddt2

Use this API to return complex load quantities.

lodind

Use this API to return the load array index.

lodint

Use this API to return integer load quantities.

lodtype

Use this API to return the load type character string.

macchr

Use this API to return character machine quantities.

macdat

Use this API to return real machine quantities.

macdt2

Use this API to return complex machine quantities.

macind

Use this API to return the machine array index.

macint

Use this API to return integer machine quantities.

macstt

Use this API to return the machine status value.

maxmsm

Use this API to return the complex bus mismatch at the bus with the largest MVA mismatch.

mdlind

Use this API to return plant-related model starting array indices and status.

mdllibcnt

Use this API to return the number of libraries in the list to be searched for dynamics library models.

mdlnam

Use this API to return plant-related model name.

mdlpgmcnt

Use this API to returns the number of model programs loaded from dynamics model libraries.

natono

Use this API to return the bus number for a specified 18-character extended bus name.

notona

Use this API to return the bus 18-character extended bus name for a specified bus number.

notonasect

Use this API to return the bus 18-character extended bus name for a specified bus section.

nxt2dc

Returns the next two-terminal dc line in dc line name alphabetical order.

nxtbrn

Returns the next branch connected to a bus, excluding three-winding transformers.

nxtbrn3

Returns the next branch connected to a bus, including three-winding transformers.

nxtbrn3_2

Returns the next branch connected to a bus section, including three-winding transformers.

nxtbrn_2

Returns the next branch connected to a bus, excluding three-winding transformers.

nxtbus

Returns the next bus in ordered sequence.

nxtbus_2

Returns the next bus in ordered sequence.

nxtfax

Returns the next FACTS device in FACTS device name alphabetical order.

nxtfxs

Use this API to return the identifier of the next fixed shunt connected to a bus.

nxtind

Use this API routine to return the identifier of the next induction machine connected to a bus.

nxtlod

Use this API to return the identifier of the next load connected to a bus.

nxtmac

Use this API to return the identifier of the next machine connected to a bus.

nxtmdc

Returns the next multi-terminal dc line in dc line name alphabetical order.

nxtmsl

Use this API to return the next multi-section line member branch.

nxtstabussect

Use this API routine to retrieve the next bus section in the specified substation.

nxtstanode

Use this API routine to retrieve the next node in the specified substation.

nxtstaswdev

Use this API routine to retrieve the next switching device in the specified substation.

nxtsws

Use this API to return the identifier of the next switched shunt connected to a bus.

nxttie

Use this API to return the next tie branch from an area, excluding three-winding transformers.

nxttie3

Use this API to return the next tie branch from an area, including three-winding transformers.

nxtvsc

Returns the next VSC dc line in dc line name alphabetical order.

okstrt

Routine which may be called after activity STRT or MSTR to indicate the presence of INITIAL CONDITIONS SUSPECT errors (for activity STRT) or at least one MODEL NOT AVAILABLE IN MSTR/MRUN message (for MSTR).

openun

Connects an IPLAN unit number to the Fortran unit used by activity OPEN and returns that IPLAN unit number.

ordbus

This API routine returns the bus number corresponding to the specified position in the ordered list (numeric or alphabetic) of non-hidden buses (i.e., star point buses and topological buses are excluded).

ordbussect

This API routine returns the bus number and section number corresponding to the specified position in the ordered list (numeric or alphabetic) of non-star point buses (i.e., star point buses are excluded).

owndat

Returns the data associated with an owner (‘LOAD’ gets loads at buses of owner ‘IAR’, ‘LOADLD’ gets loads assigned to owner ‘IAR’).

ownnam

Returns the owner name for a specified owner number.

ownnum

Returns the owner number for a specified owner name.

ownuse

Use this API to indicate whether an owner is in use.

prmdat

Use this API routine to return real-valued solution parameters.

prmint

Use this API routine to return integer-valued solution parameters.

ratchr

Use this API to get rating set parameters.

rmodind

Returns the branch relay model starting array indices and status.

rmodnam

Returns the branch relay model name.

sbsgtbkv

Use this API to get previously defined bus subsystem voltage limits.

sc3wnd

Returns the three-winding transformer short circuit currents arriving at IBUS following activity SCMU.

scbrn2

Returns the branch short circuit currents arriving at IBUS following activity SCMU.

scbus2

Returns complex bus voltages and currents following activity SCMU.

scdone

Use this API to restore the working case after ‘SCINIT’.

scinit

Use this API to initialize the short-circuit data retrieval APIs.

scmac2

Use this API to return the machine short circuit currents following activity SCMU.

selctr

Use this API to return the activity selector indicator.

sethomepath

Use this API to set a user’s HOMEPATH directory.

sfiles

Use this API to return the current Saved Case and Snapshot filenames.

slmodind

Use this API to return the subsystem load-related model starting array indices and status.

slmodnam

Use this API to return the subsystem load-related model name.

solstr

Use this API to return a string indicating the result of the last solution attempt.

solved

Use this API to check whether the last solution attempt reached tolerance.

solved_ca

Use this API to check whether the last corrective action solution attempt reached tolerance.

stadat

Use this API routine to return real substation values.

staint

Use this API routine to return integer substation values.

staname

Use this API routine to return a substation’s name.

stanodeint

Use this API routine to return integer substation values.

stanodename

Use this API routine to return the name of a substation node.

starea

Use this API to restrict ‘NXTBUS’ to a single area.

staswdevdat

Use this API routine to return real substation switching device values.

staswdevint

Use this API routine to return integer substation switching device values.

staswdevname

Use this API routine to return the name of a substation switching device.

stbskv

Use this API to restrict ‘NXTBUS’ to a single base voltage level.

stzone

Use this API to restrict ‘NXTBUS’ to a single zone.

swsblk

This API routine is obsolete.

swsblk_2

Use this API to return data for a specified block of a specified switched shunt.

swsblz

This API routine is obsolete.

swsblz2

This API routine is obsolete.

swsdat

This API routine is obsolete.

swsdat_2

Use this API to return switched shunt real data.

swsdt1

This API routine is obsolete.

swsint

This API routine is obsolete.

swsint_2

Use this API to return switched shunt integer parameters.

swsmind

This API routine is obsolete.

swsmind_2

Use this API to return switched shunt model starting array indices and status.

swsmnam

This API routine is obsolete.

swsmnam_2

Use this API to return switched shunt model name.

sysmsm

Use this API to return the total system MVA mismatch.

sysmva

Use this API to return the system base MVA.

systot

Use this API to return complex system-wide values.

titldt

Use this API to return the two line case title.

totbus

Use this API to return the total number of buses in the working case.

tr3dat

Use this API to return three-winding transformer real values.

tr3dt2

Use this API to return three-winding transformer complex values.

tr3int

Use this API to return three-winding transformer integer values.

tr3nam

Use this API to return three-winding transformer name.

trndat

This API routine is obsolete.

trxdat

Use this API to return the inter-area transfer MW.

tspfprofilechr

Use this API to return string parameters of Time Series Power Flow profile.

tspfprofilecurvechr

Use this API to return string parameters of Time Series Power Flow profile curve.

tspfprofilecurveint

Use this API to return integer parameters of Time Series Power Flow profile curve.

tspfprofilecurvereal

Use this API to return real parameters of Time Series Power Flow profile curve.

tspfprofileint

Use this API to return integer parameters of Time Series Power Flow profile.

tspfprofilereal

Use this API to return real parameters of Time Series Power Flow profile.

voltagedroopdata

Use this API to return voltage droop control real parameters.

voltagedroopint

Use this API to return voltage droop control integer parameters.

vscauxmind

Use this API to return the starting array indices and status of auxiliary signal model associated with VSC dc line for the specified signal index.

vscauxmnam

Use this API to return the auxiliary signal model name associated with a VSC dc line for the specified auxiliary signal index.

vsccdt

Use this API to return VSC dc line real parameters.

vsccin

Use this API to return VSC dc line converter integer parameters.

vscint

Use this API to return VSC dc line integer parameters.

vscmind

Use this API to return VSC dc line model starting array indices and status.

vscmnam

Use this API to return VSC dc line model name.

windmind

Use this API to return wind model starting array indices and status.

windmnam

Use this API to return wind model name.

wnddat

Use this API to return three-winding transformer real values for winding connected to bus IBUS.

wnddt2

Use this API to return three-winding transformer complex values for winding connected to bus IBUS.

wndint

Use this API to return three-winding transformer integer values for winding connected to bus IBUS.

xfrdat

Use this API to return two-winding transformer real parameters.

xfrint

Use this API to return two-winding transformer integer parameters.

xfrnam

Use this API to return two-winding transformer name.

zndat

Use this API to return zone totals.

znitoj

Use this API to return the interchange between two zones.

zonnam

Use this API to return the zone name.

zonnum

Use this API to return the zone number.

zonuse

Use this API to indicate whether a zone is in use.