are dispatched at a level consistent with the CDR Report for On-Peak Cases.
Units that are solely for black start purposes are to be modeled in the SSWG Cases; however, these units should not be dispatched.  Black Start units are designated with a unit ID of “BS”.
All other transmission level units are dispatched using an economic-simulation software package. Units will be dispatched to minimize production costs taking into account unit start-up times and cost and heat rates while adhering to the following guidelines for each set of cases: (YR is the year the case is created)

SSWG CASE	NOTES	TRANSMISSION IN-SERVICE DATE
(YR+1) SPG1	1	April 1, (YR+1)
(YR+1) SPG2	1	April 1, (YR+1)
(YR+1) SUM1	1	July 1, (YR+1)
(YR+1) SUM2	1	July 1, (YR+1)
(YR+1) FAL1	1	October 1, (YR+1)
(YR+1) FAL2	1	October 1, (YR+1)
(YR+2) WIN1	1	January 1, (YR+2)
(YR+2) WIN2	1	January 1, (YR+2)
(YR+2) SUM1	2	July 1, (YR+2)
(YR+3) SUM1	2	July 1, (YR+3)
(YR+4) MIN	3	January 1, (YR+4)
(YR+4) HRML	4	January 1, (YR+4)
(YR+4) SUM1	2	July 1, (YR+4)
(YR+5) SUM1	2	July 1, (YR+5)
(YR+6) SUM1	2	July 1, (YR+6)
(YR+7) SUM1	2	July 1, (YR+7)
Notes:
1.	The SSWG Cases that are Security Constrained Economically Dispatched (SCED) using NERC and ERCOT contingencies for which non-consequential load loss is generally not allowed while monitoring Rate 1 (pre-contingency) and Rate 2 (post-contingency) for all transmission lines greater than 60 kV and transformers with the low side greater than 60 kV. 
2.	The SSWG Cases that are economically dispatched with an attempt to prevent Rate 1 overloads for all transmission lines greater than 60 kV and transformers with the low side greater than 60 kV. 
3.	Not Economically Dispatched
4.	The HRML case build process is as follows:
a.	Topology
i.	Use the topology as of January 1, YR+4
b.	Load
i.	Load shall be set at absolute minimum load expected for the year (the same value utilized by the MIN case)
c.	Respect existing N-0 GTC limits
i.	Model and constrain on the GTC interfaces with an N-0 limit that is not 9999
d.	Dispatch the case
i.	Dispatch nuclear units at full capacity, and NOIE and PUN units at the output in the NOIE/PUN dispatch sheet
ii.	Turn DC ties off
iii.	Determine reserve requirements from ancillary services and dispatch conventional generation on a lowest cost basis at PMIN if needed to meet reserve requirements. 
1.	Use the average of the last January reserves for:
a.	Responsive Reserve Service – Primary Frequency Response – to come from online headroom
b.	Regulation Up – to come from online headroom
c.	Regulation Down – to come from renewables
d.	Non-Spin – to come from online headroom 
iv.	Dispatch additional conventional generation on a lowest cost basis at PMIN to meet the ERCOT critical inertia requirements
1.	The minimum inertia level to meet is 121 GWs
2.	If the requirements are already met by meeting AS reserve – do not dispatch additional conventional units
v.	Calculate the remaining load to be served (MIN load – sum of nuclear/PUN/reserve PGEN)
vi.	Dispatch renewable units
1.	Collect historical hourly wind and solar data of the past 18 months
a.	Monthly report on uncurtailed generation estimate data is posted on the WMWG meeting page each month
https://www.ercot.com/committees/wms/wmwg 
2.	Remove hours where uncurtailed wind or solar capacity output is less than 50%
3.	Sum the hourly uncurtailed wind and solar capacity output
4.	Find the penetration of the sum of the hourly uncurtailed wind and solar capacity output to system load during the hour (sum/load)
5.	Rank the hours by the penetration percentage from the previous step from highest to lowest and select the top twenty hours
6.	Find the average estimated uncurtailed renewable output (wind output + solar output respectively) from the top twenty hours
7.	Calculate the average ERCOT load in the top 20 hours
8.	Take the average estimated uncurtailed renewable output and divide it by the average ERCOT load in the top 20 hours to get the average uncurtailed renewable penetration of the top 20 hours for wind and solar respectively 
9.	Multiply the uncurtailed renewable penetration value by the total load in the MIN case to determine the total number of renewable MW in the case
10.	Determine the average uncurtailed wind capacity factor and solar capacity factor for the top 20 hours
11.	Determine the ratio between the average uncurtailed wind and solar capacity factors, then distribute the total renewable MW by this ratio
12.	For the selected top 20 hours, find the average uncurtailed capacity factors for each wind region and find the ratios between them
13.	Assign the total wind MW to each region based on these ratios
14.	If the total amount of renewable generation to be dispatched is greater than the remaining load to be served, reduce the total number of Renewable MW to be dispatched to equal the remaining load to be served and use the same steps as above to determine the ratio of wind to solar generation 
vii.	If there remains load to be served ((MIN load – sum of nuclear/PUN/reserve PGEN/renewables) > 0), dispatch conventional units on a least cost basis to serve the remaining load
viii.	If any GTCs are violated, adjust the dispatch by moving units with the highest shift factor on the GTC. Overall renewable output should be preserved and if renewables are dispatched downwards to meet GTC limits, then the capacity should be allocated to another region.
ix.	The Panhandle wind region should remain above 70% capacity factor.
x.	If the case cannot be solved at given renewable output, adjust generation as needed.
DGR and DESR shall be committed and dispatched using the same methodology as transmission-connected Resources of the same type. SODG shall be committed and dispatched based on their resource type as noted in the following table.
SODG Resource Type	Commitment / Dispatch
Battery	Offline
Solar	Consistent with CDR solar percent capacity contribution
Natural Gas	Offline
Diesel	Offline
Wind	Consistent with CDR wind percent capacity contribution
Landfill Gas	Offline
Hydro	Offline
Other Inverter-Based Resources	Offline
Other Synchronous Generation	Offline

SSWG members shall be able to review and suggest changes to the generation dispatch based on historical information.
In all cases spinning reserve is maintained according to ERCOT Nodal Operating Guides, Section 2.3.1.1, to the extent that the extraordinary dispatch conditions in Section 4.3.3.1 Item 1 of this guide are not deployed.  Specifically, spinning reserve is maintained such that 50% of the Responsive Reserve Service obligation is made up of generation resources with the other 50% of Responsive Reserve Service obligation coming from Load Resources.  The dispatch may be modified in the seasonal SSWG Cases if necessary to maintain voltages at acceptable levels.
New transmission level Generation 