PMCRs into MOD.  Other PMCRs are also submitted into MOD (i.e. ‘NOMCR_PENDING’ and ‘NOMCR_SUBMITTED’ PMCRs) which are aimed at maintaining consistency between NMMS and MOD.  Additionally, ERCOT and the TSPs submit Load, Generation, and Device Control Profiles into MOD.  After being submitted, approved, and accepted, the combination of PMCRs and Profiles are applied to the MOD seed case to create the SSWG Cases.
The primary software tools utilized for these processes are MOD, MOD File Builder and PSS®E. MOD is a web based application maintained by ERCOT.  TSPs and ERCOT use MOD to submit projects and profiles for SSWG Cases.  ERCOT compiles these submitted projects and profiles to build the SSWG Cases.  Case modifications can be accomplished in MOD by either uploading PMCRs in MOD, or by manual entry using the MOD interface.  SSWG members should consult the Planning Model Design Guidelines & Expectations manual for specific instructions on MOD.
3.3.2	Incremental Update
Upon commencement of each new SSWG Case creation and each update, the SSWG implements an incremental update to the MOD base case in order to include the latest Network Operations Model data into the SSWG Cases.  This is accomplished by using MOD File Builder to compare the RAW files of topology processed NMMS data with selected data currently existing in MOD.  MOD File Builder is used to create a comparison PMCR that updates the corresponding Planning Model data in MOD to be consistent with the Network Operations Model data.  The comparison PMCR is subsequently submitted into MOD and committed to the MOD base case to perform the incremental MOD base case update.  
The sample flowchart below identifies the general process:

 
 
3.3.3	Transmission In-Service Date for the TP Case
The TP case will be generated by ERCOT staff using an NMMS Transmission In-Service Date agreed upon by SSWG. The TP case will contain all existing NOMCRs with a Transmission In-Service Date on or before the agreed upon Transmission In-Service Date. Any NOMCR submitted after the TP case download which happens to have a Transmission In-Service Date prior to the agreed upon Transmission In-Service Date will not be included in the TP case.  For that situation, the TSP who owns the NOMCR must submit a PMCR to appropriately include the network model change in the SSWG Cases.
3.3.4	Entity Responsibilities
The  SSWG Cases are assembled and produced as a collaborative effort by the SSWG.  The responsibilities for providing this data are divided among the various Market Participants (MPs) and ERCOT. These data provision responsibilities may overlap among the various MPs because MPs may designate their representative or MPs may be a member of more than one MP group.  MPs can generally be divided into four groups: TSPs, LSEs, REs, and Market Entities.  ERCOT staff is included as a fifth entity with data provision responsibilities.  The data responsibilities of each group are as follows:
3.3.4.1	TSPs
•	It is the responsibility of each TSP to provide accurate modeling information for all ERCOT Transmission Facilities owned or planned by the TSP.  Submission requirements and naming conventions described in the ERCOT Planning Model Design & Expectations manual shall be followed.
•	Future Transmission Facility changes will be submitted as PMCRs. A PMCR phase date should correspond to the transmission in-service date. PMCRs should be submitted as far out into the future as possible. This technique will make the case building process more efficient when transitioning to new case builds.
•	TSPs shall submit Profiles of all load data and associated topology for the load entities of which they are designated representatives, as well as, any other load for which it has accepted responsibility for modeling.  
•	TSPs shall change the load ID to ‘ER’ (or ‘E1’, ‘E2’, etc.) for loads for which it has historically  submitted data but no longer accepts responsibility.  ERCOT will determine the owner of the load and ensure they are part of the ALDR and SSWG processes. See Appendix E for additional details.
•	PUN loads and POI busses will be provided by TSPs.
•	NOIEs have the option of submitting a generation dispatch or deferring to ERCOT staff.
•	Proper transmission system voltages will be maintained by submitting accurate data for static and dynamic reactive resources and transformer settings via a Device Control Profile for each case.  Scheduled bus voltages are maintained by the TSPs and submitted via Device Control Profiles as well.  TSPs can suggest different generator reactive limits Qmax and Qmin for ERCOT to submit in the Load Generation Profiles and should submit data to collaborate the need for the change such as historical unit operation and biennial reactive tests.  ERCOT will submit the change and follow-up with the RE and TSP to determine any Resource Registration Data modifications.
•	If the TSPs identify errors with generator data or RE topology, the TSPs will notify ERCOT staff in accordance with the identified NMMS process.  This process entails email notification to the TSP of a Resource Registration Data change in their footprint and posting of updated Resource Registration Data data on the Citrix NMMS_POSTINGS area of the ERCOT Market Information System.
•	Review and resolve all inconsistencies identified from the incremental update process for their respective Transmission Facilities.
•	The “MOD Project” is submitted by the TSPs and the MOD Project ID for the project will become the “TPIT number”.  When editing an accepted project, click the “Edit” button from the project list to put project into “Preliminary” state, then “View” the project from project list and use the “Replace” button to upload edited project.  This will preserve the MOD Project ID for TPIT.
•	TSPs are responsible for updating TPIT project and phase information in MOD during each tri-annual case build/update for all the applicable fields as shown below.

Field Name	Required/ Optional
ERCOT Project Number	Required
RTP Project Number	Required if in RTP
RPG Project Number	Required for submitted Tier 1, 2, and 3 projects
Project Title	Required
Project Description	Optional
Comments/Reasons for Delays/Cancellations/Speedup	Optional
Terminal "from" Location	Optional
Terminal "to" Location	Optional
Transmission Status	Optional
Associated Projects (project number)	Optional
Transmission Owner	Required
TSP/Company Contact	Required
Transmission Owner Project Number	Optional
Projected In-Service Date (Month/Yr)	Required
Actual In-Service Date (Month/Yr)	Required once energized in the field
CONFIDENTIAL Total Project Estimated Cost	Required
Service Level kV	Required
Trans Circuit Miles New	Optional
Trans Circuit Miles Rebuilt or Upgraded	Optional
Autotransformer Capacity (MVA)	Optional
Reactive Capability Added	Optional
County