
Taylor, Texas 76574
(512) 248-6800
ercot.com
RESOURCE INTERCONNECTION HANDBOOK
Version 1.94

ERCOT
3/01/2023

This handbook is intended to provide a general description of ERCOT’s generator interconnection process for current and potential ERCOT Market Participants. This handbook is not a replacement for the ERCOT Protocols, Operating Guides, Planning Guide, or Other Binding Documents. In the event of any conflict, the ERCOT Protocols, Market Guides, and/or Other Binding Documents (OBDs) shall control.
Contents
Acronyms and Abbreviations	6
Resource Interconnection Handbook Purpose	7
Generation Interconnection Overview	7
Generation Interconnection Process Overview	9
STAGE 1 – Generation Interconnection Request Application to QSA	11
Generation Interconnection or Change Request Application and Fees	12
GIM (GINR) Applications for Multiple Technology Types	17
GIM (GINR) Applications for Multiple Project Phases or Long Commissioning	17
Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act RFI	18
Security Screening Study	18
Full Interconnection Study (FIS)	18
FIS Scope Meeting	21
FIS Study Process	21
Subsynchronous Resonance Study (SSR)	21
Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA)	22
Planning Guide section 6.9	22
Reactive Study Requirements	22
Compliance with Operational Standards Review	23
Quarterly Stability Assessment (QSA)	23
Small Generation Process:	25
STAGE 2 - Registration and Modeling	27
Registering as a Resource Entity	27
RIOO Resource Data Entry (Substation Data)	27
Network Modeling Requirements	29
ERCOT Polled-Settlement Meter and ESI ID Requirements	31
Telemetry and ICCP Requirements	31
STAGE 3: Energization, Synchronization and Commissioning	33
Final Compliance with Operational Standards	33
Background	33
ERCOT New Generator Commissioning Checklist	34
RIOO-IS Commissioning Planned Dates	34
Commissioning Plan Template	34
ERCOT 90-day expectation for the Commissioning Process of a Resource	35
Outage Scheduler	35
Commissioning Process	35
Checklist submittals and approval:	36
Additional Details on Commissioning Checklist Submissions	36
Base Point, Reactive Power Capability, VSS, AVR, PFR and PSS Testing	38
Base Point following during Curtailment – IRRs and IRR Groups	38
IRR Unit Curtailment Testing (Note:  Use the following process for an individual IRR that is not in an IRR Group)	38
IRR Group Curtailment Testing (Note: The IRR Group is being curtailed at each step below; these are not individual unit curtailments)	39
Reactive Power Capability	40
Voltage Support Service (VSS)	40
Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR)	41
Primary Frequency Response (PFR)	43
Power System Stabilizer (PSS)	43
Generator Status during the Commissioning Process - ONTEST, ON and OUT Status	43
Operation Requirement of Data Center Loads and/or PUN loads with IRR Generation	44
APPENDIX A: Helpful Resources and Links	45
APPENDIX B: LIST OF ERCOT FORMS FOR INTERCONNECTION PROCESS	46
APPENDIX C: NAMING CONVENTIONS	47
APPENDIX D:  LARGE GEN TIMELINE 1	48
APPENDIX E:  LARGE GEN TIMELINE 2	49
APPENDIX F:  SMALL GEN TIMELINE 1	50
APPENDIX G: SMALL GEN TIMELINE 2	51
APPENDIX H:  SMALL GEN PROCESS FLOWCHART (Zoom In for more details)	52
APPENDIX I:  GIM (GINR) TABULAR TIMELINE:	53
APPENDIX J:  FIS Review Checklist – dated 8/3/2020	54
APPENDIX K:  Small Gen Review Checklist – Dated 1/22/2022:	60
APPENDIX L:  Template for RE’s Wanting to Submit Model Information	66
APPENDIX M:  REVISIONS	68
APPENDIX N:  Resource Status Codes (ICCP Handbook 2020)	70
 
 
Acronyms and Abbreviations 

Acronym	Definition
AVR	Automatic Voltage Regulator
CAMR	Collaborative Action Modeling Request
DESR	Distribution Energy Storage Resource
DGR	Distribution Generation Resource
ESI ID	Electric Service Identifier
FIS	Full Interconnection Study
GINR	Generation Interconnection or Change Request
GIM	Generation Interconnection or Modification
GIM Coordinator	ERCOT Resource Integration Analyst that creates the interconnection record.
IE	Interconnecting Entity
ME	Meter Engineering
NOIE	Non-Opt-In Entity
NOMCR	Network Operations Model Change Request
PFR	Primary Frequency Response
PLD	Production Load Date
PMCR	Planning Model Change Request
POI	Point of Interconnection
POIB	Point of Interconnection Bus
PSS	Power System Stabilizer
PUCT	Public Utility Commission of Texas
QSA	Quarterly Stability Assessment
QSE	Qualified Scheduling Entity
RARF	Resource Asset Registration Form
RE	Resource Entity
RI	ERCOT Resource Integration Department
RIOO-IS	Resource Interconnection and On-going Operations - Interconnection Services
RIOO-RS	Resource Interconnection and On-going Operations - Resource Services
SCADA	Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SCED	Security-Constrained Economic Dispatch
SGIA	Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (commonly referred to as “IA”)
SSS	Security Screening Study
SSR	Subsynchronous Resonance
TSP/TDSP	Transmission and/or Distribution Service Provider
 
Resource Interconnection Handbook Purpose
The goal of the Resource Interconnection Handbook is to provide an overview of the process an Interconnecting Entity must follow when it is required to enter the Generation Interconnection or Modification (GIM) Process either to commission new generation to the ERCOT System or to modify existing generation connected to the ERCOT System as described in Planning Guide section 5.2.1. When revisions to this document are made by ERCOT, a market notice will be posted on the Market Information System and the updated document will be posted to the ERCOT website.	
Link to the Resource Integration Page:  https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/integration. 
Generation Interconnection Overview 
All entities that own generation connected to the ERCOT System at or above 1 MW must be registered as a Resource Entity (RE). The RE must register each generator through the ERCOT registration process by submitting the required data using the applicable resource registration process. The resource registration process incorporates electronic and manual processes to submit, validate, and approve the resource data that is used in planning, market and operations systems as defined in the ERCOT Protocols and Market Guides.
Connecting new or modified generation to the grid requires that QSEs, REs, IEs and TSPs provide ERCOT with accurate engineering models and telemetry of the new or modified generator and all associated transmission facilities as required for the Network Operations Model.  Adding information to the ERCOT Network Operations Model is controlled by protocol 3.10. The registration and modeling process ensures that data submitted by equipment owners is accurately modeled and that communications between ERCOT systems and the new generator’s systems through the QSE are in place before the new or modified generation is commissioned.
During the interconnection process, the ERCOT Resource Integration department is the primary contact for an Interconnecting Entity (IE). ERCOT Resource Integration is responsible for tracking each generator through the stages of the interconnection process and facilitating interactions between ERCOT, TSPs and REs as well as resolution of any issues that may arise. Each RE is assigned an Account Manager upon registration as a Market Participant who serves as its primary contact for operational interactions with ERCOT after commissioning.  Account Managers will guide each RE through its preparations for market operations while the IE completes the interconnection process as the generator is energized, synchronized, and approved as ready to be commissioned for participation in the ERCOT market.
ERCOT will work with the IE to establish the Production Load Date (PLD) which is based on the Initial Energization date of the Point of Interconnection (POI) and the Initial Synchronization date of the generator. The energization date of the POI needs to be coordinated with the TSP’s PLD for their side of the POI to allow time to resolve issues with telemetry or other operational issues before synchronization.  The POI must be a new or existing station with breakers (no hard taps) capable of interrupting fault current to sectionalize the transmission lines connecting the station to the rest of the ERCOT System.  The POI must also be connected to the ERCOT System where there are breakers and not, for example, connected to an existing line that is tapped off another transmission line.  
ERCOT recommends that the potential RE register as a Market Participant at least 140 days prior to the date that the new or modified generator is to be added to the Network Operations Model (PLD). The Resource Entity should also complete the fields required for full registration in RIOO-IS Substation Details for the Network Operations Model at least 120 days prior to the desired Production Load Date (PLD) and inform ERCOT that it had been submitted to allow time for revisions to help ensure being able to meet the submittal date for the PLD shown in Protocol 3.10.1. 
Generation Interconnection Process Overview
The generation interconnection process described in this handbook has been divided into the following three stages for the purpose of defining the interactions between the developer/owner of the generation resource, ERCOT and TSPs:

Stage 1:  Interconnection Request Application to Quarterly Stability Assessment
Stage 2:  Registration and Modeling
Stage 3:  Energization, Synchronization and Commissioning
		Figure 1: Generation Resource Interconnection Process Flow
 
In Stage 1, the IE submits a GIM application to ERCOT for any generation that meets the applicability requirements in section 5.2.1 of the ERCOT Planning Guides using RIOO-IS.  ERCOT will review the RIOO submittal and accept or return the application within 10 business days after which the status of the GIM will change to “In Progress” or ”Planned” (See Table 1, the IE will see the status of “In Progress” while ERCOT will see the status of “Planned”).  ERCOT will conduct a Security Screening Study (SSS) to evaluate the proposed generator’s effect on the ERCOT transmission system. ERCOT will post the SSS to the RIOO system upon completion.  Prior to or no later than 180 days after completion of the SSS, the IE will submit a RIOO change request to attach the Proof of Site Control and enter the Energization, Sychronization, and Commercial Operations Date along with the required data in Substation Details to initiate the Full Interconnection Study process that is performed by the TSP owning the POI facilities.  The IE shall inform ERCOT by email when the data required for the FIS has been submitted.  If the IE does not request the FIS within 180 days of the date ERCOT notifies the IE of the Security Screening Study results, the GIM (GINR) application will be considered withdrawn by the IE and cancelled by ERCOT.
Once all FIS studies are completed, a Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement must be executed with the TSP within 180 days for the GIM to continue. Failure to meet this requirement will result in cancellation of the GIM by ERCOT.  Upon completion of the SGIA, generation data required by the Resource Registration Glossary – Planning Model column shall be supplied by the IE to ERCOT using RIOO-IS. The IE shall provide to the TSP the Notice to Proceed with construction and the full financial security required to fund the interconnection and the TSP will provide these dates in RIOO-IS.  The IE must also provide the Department of Defense Notification attestation in RIOO-IS. ERCOT then models the new generation in planning base cases built by the Steady State Working Group (SSWG) once it meets Planning Guide section 6.9.
Once the Interconnecting Entity meets Planning Guide section 6.9, ERCOT performs a Compliance with Operational Standards review in accordance with Protocol 16.5 (3) to determine if the generator can fully comply with ERCOT Operating Standards based on the submitted FIS, SGIA and resource data.  The Quarterly Stability Assessment is used to assess the stability impact of the proposed resource alongside other resources that are synchronizing in the same quarter and determine if mitigation plans are needed before the generator is allowed to synchronize to the ERCOT system.   
In Stage 2, the Resource Entity registers as a Market Participant with ERCOT. Once registered, the Resource Entity is responsible for registering the generator by submitting the resource data required by the Resource Registration Glossary – Full Registration column in RIOO-IS.  ERCOT models the new generator in the Network Operations Model from the resource data supplied to reflect the addition of the new generation and related facilities. The RE will need to coordinate with the TSP to make sure the TSP facilities are also modeled for the same PLD.
ERCOT will also review the proposed telemetry points list required to establish real-time communication and control between ERCOT and the QSE. ERCOT works directly with the TSPs and REs to establish the necessary ERCOT Polled Settlement (EPS) meter communication points which allows gathering of 15-minute data for settlements.
In Stage 3, ERCOT reviews the generator’s Commissioning Plan Template, and approves the following 3 checklist parts described in the New Generator Commissioning Checklist:
•	Part 1:  Request to Energize
•	Part 2:  Request for Initial Synchronization (or Parts 2a and 2b for WGR’s meeting applicability of Planning Guide section 5.2.1(1)(c)(ii).
•	Part 3:  Request to Commission a Resource
For the generator to be commissioned and approved for participation in ERCOT market operations, it must demonstrate that it can satisfy ERCOT’s requirements for Reactive Power (both leading and lagging), Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR), Primary Frequency Response (PFR), Power System Stabilizer (PSS), and follow SCED instructions as applicable to the generation type and registration.
See the Normal and Fast timelines in appendices D and E.
IE sign up guide:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/01/14/IE-SignUp-Guide-for-RIOO-Services.pdf
RE sign up guide:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/01/14/RE-SignUp-Guide-for-RIOO-Services.pdf
TDSP sign up guide:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/01/14/TSP-Sign-Up-for-RIOO-Services.pdf
Managing your RIOO account:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/01/14/Managing-Your-RIOO-Services-User-Account.pdf
STAGE 1 – Generation Interconnection Request Application to QSA
Examples of Applicability (Planning Guide Section 5):  1 - 9.99 MW is Small Gen, 10+ MW is Large Gen.
Generation Interconnection or Change Request Application and Fees
All IEs seeking to interconnect new generation or modify existing generation connected to the ERCOT system 1 MW or greater in accordance with Planning Guide section 5.2.1 are required to follow the Generation Interconnection or Modification (GIM) process.  
To begin the GIM process and initiate the Security Screening Study or a simultaneous Security Screening Study and Full Interconnect Study, IEs must initiate an application using the RIOO-IS system.  Information on RIOO-IS access and use can be found on-line as shown with the numbered icons below.
1.	Figure 1 shows how to launch the RIOO-IS application.  Best browser to use is Chrome.
2.	Figure 2 shows Related content to help IEs and TSPs sign-up to create an account and to use the application with user guides specific to IEs and TSPs.  Note that TSPs must follow the RIOO-IS TSP Sign-Up Reference very carefully to create a TSP account which will allow them to see all GIM (GINR)s.
Figure 1  ERCOT.com bottom of page link to launch RIOO-IS
Figure 2:  Resource Integration page for related content to help IE’s and TSP’s
IEs should see a page like that below if they have signed up correctly.  Note the “Start New INR Request” button in the top right.  TSPs should not see this button and if they do, they should submit an ERCOT Helpdesk ticket to remove their Auth0 account.  The “Start New INR Request” button is a drop down with a choice to start as either an IE or a RE.  Load Resources need to start as a RE, as should Small Generation projects because they will need to submit a full registration RARF right away.
Figure 3:  IE RIOO page after signing in After clicking the “Start New INR Request” button, IEs should see the following screen showing the action items to choose the size and whether the connection will be transmission or distribution.  
Figure 4: The IE screen to start an INR.  Choose the size of your project 
RE’s will see a similar screen, but first will have to select the company that they want to use to create the INR if more than one company is listed.  For a company to be listed, a RE will need to have the role RIOORS_M_OPERATOR listed in their MPIM for the companies DUNS number.  Contact your USA to have that role added.
Figure 5 The RE screen to start an INR, select the company from the drop down and choose the size of your project 
Figure 6 Once the size is chosen, new options appear
From the initial GIM (GINR) application submittal until the IE is assigned a Resource Integration (RI) Engineer, IEs should direct questions about the generator interconnection or change process itself or primary contact changes to  ResourceIntegrationDepartment@ercot.com.  RIOO-IS access issues should be submitted to the ERCOT Helpdesk or RIOO-HELP@ercot.com.  
When an ERCOT RI Engineer is assigned to the GIM (GINR) application, the RI Engineer will notify the IE with their contact information and inform them that they will oversee their interconnection application and be available to answer questions. 
 
Figure 7 MW Size Entry
The MW values entered into the Maximum Generator MW, Maximum Summer Generator MW, and Maximum Winter Generator MW in the RIOO-IS screen above should be the MW value at the generator terminals as modeled in the ERCOT Network Operations Model (typically 34.5 kV bus for IRRs and IBRs), not the Point of Interconnection Bus.  For projects meeting PG 5.2.1(1)(c)(ii), the Maximum and Maximum Summer Generator MW are the same (except for thermal units) and the Maximum Winter Generator MW is set to the delta MW value caused by the changes being done in the project.
ERCOT will notify the IE within 10 Business days if any part of the application requirements are not complete or the appropriate fee was not submitted. ERCOT will immediately contact the IE if more information is needed, and the IE will have 10 Business Days to respond without impacting the timeline.  If the IE does not respond within 10 Business Days, ERCOT shall notify the IE that the request has been deemed incomplete and rejected. 
When the application is deemed complete, ERCOT will change the status of the completed GIM (GINR) application within 10 Business Days to “In progress”/”Planned”.  The IE will see the status of “In Progress”, while ERCOT will see the status of “Planned”.  Other statuses are shown in the table below:
	(Changed from new) - is in the status of new until ERCOT coordinator moves it to incomplete. 
•	 – with a credit card and we have automatic confirmed payment
•	 – is manually reconciled by the coordinator. The coordinator will have access to the banking system and can move the INR to incomplete when the check clears.  
 – this is an ERCOT internal status when in this status we display to the IE the following labels instead:
•	 on Your INR Request – when ERCOT requested a change from the IE using the toggle button in the ERCOT information section of the INR review
•	Submitted to ERCOT– otherwise it says submitted during ERCOT review of paperwork
– stays in planned until it is commissioned, canceled, or suspended during a sale. We display labels to the IE user of:
•	 - when no CR is in progress has the label of in progress.
•	 – when there is a CR in progress will go back to planned when the CR is resolved by either an IE cancel or ERCOT or IE merge. 
•	 – waiting for check to clear for ERCOT Stability Modeling Fee. – the IE as requested an FIS and paid by check 
•	 – when ercot has responded to the IE that not all of their changes were excepted, the IE user can either acknowledge or cancel the feedback from ercot.
 – the IE has sent in a CR for change of owner, the system has automatically updated the status to suspend. The label that is displayed to the IE is
•	 – displayed until the IE send in a CR with a new RARF, ercot will manually move the status from suspended to planned. 
 – is displayed when an INR is canceled
– is displayed when ercot changes the status to operational.

GIM (GINR) Status	Saved – is set to Saved until the IE submits it to ERCOT
Submitted (changed from new) - is in the status of new until ERCOT coordinator moves it to incomplete. The IE will see the status of:
•	INR Submitted to ERCOT – with a credit card and we have automatic confirmed payment
•	INR Submitted to ERCOT - waiting for check to clear – is manually reconciled by the coordinator. The coordinator will have access to the banking system and can move the INR to incomplete when the check clears.  
Incomplete – this is an ERCOT internal status when in this status we display to the IE the following labels instead:
•	Updates Needed on Your INR Request – when ERCOT requested a change from the IE using the toggle button in the ERCOT information section of the INR review
•	INR Submitted to ERCOT– otherwise it says submitted during ERCOT review of paperwork
Planned – stays in planned until it is commissioned, canceled, or suspended during a sale. The IE will see:
•	In Progress - when no CR is in progress has the label of in progress.
•	Change Request Submitted to ERCOT – when there is a CR in progress will go back to planned when the CR is resolved by either an IE cancel or ERCOT or IE merge. 
•	Change Request Submitted to ERCOT – waiting for check to clear for ERCOT Stability Modeling Fee. – the IE as requested an FIS and paid by check 
•	Review ERCOT Feedback – when ERCOT has responded to the IE that not all their changes were accepted, the IE user can either acknowledge or cancel the feedback from ERCOT.
Suspended (also used for “Inactive”) – the IE has sent in a CR for change of owner or have requested the project be put in Inactive status, the system has automatically updated the status to suspended. The label that is displayed to the IE is
•	Suspended for Ownership Determination – displayed until the IE send in a CR with a new RARF, ERCOT will manually move the status from suspended to planned. 
•	(Temporary) Used to denote “INACTIVE” status but IE will still see “Suspended for Ownership Determination”.  The project is Inactive.
Canceled – is displayed when an INR is canceled
Operational – is displayed when ERCOT changes the status to operational.
Table 1: ERCOT/IE Status Mapping 
GIM (GINR) Applications for Multiple Technology Types
Separate GIM applications should be submitted for each technology type in the interconnection request.  For example, if an interconnection request includes solar and battery facilities, two GIM applications should be submitted.  ERCOT and the interconnecting TSP will hold a single FIS kickoff meeting for both INR numbers and the IE and the TSP may sign a single SGIA referring to both INR numbers.  Both GIMs will be included in the SSS and FIS.
GIM (GINR) Applications for Multiple Project Phases or Long Commissioning 
A separate GIM application should be submitted for Projects being built in phases or over a long period of time.  ERCOT desires the time between Initial Synchronization and Resource Commissioning Date to be 120 days or less.  Projects requiring more time should be split into separate GIM’s as soon as it is first known.  
For projects requiring multiple INR numbers, the IE must ensure that each of the modeled generator’s capacity at a given point in time is completely contained in a single INR number.  It is expected that all modeled generators whose capacity is included in the same INR number must all be approved for Resource Commissioning (Part 3) on the same day.
Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act RFI 
During the initial application stage for both Small and Large generation, the following screen will appear.    The blue text concerning the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act can be ignored as an attestation will have to be e-signed later in the process before payment.
Figure 8:  The text in the blue box can be ignored concerning the Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act Screen
Security Screening Study
For each GIM request submitted, ERCOT will conduct a high-level, steady-state Security Screening Study (SSS), including power-flow and transfer studies, based on the proposed Commercial Operation Date (COD) and a single Point of Interconnection (POI).  The main purpose of the study is to provide an indication of the level at which the proposed generation can expect to operate simultaneously with other known generation in the area before significant transmission additions or enhancements may be required.
ERCOT is allowed 90 days to perform the Screening Study.  During this time, ERCOT will contact the IE if additional information is needed, and the IE will have 10 Business Days to respond without impacting the study timeline.
During the Security Screening Study, ERCOT may consult with affected TSPs to identify the most efficient means of providing transmission service.  The TSP may suggest an alternate POI which will be allowed and not force the IE to submit another GIM.
Upon completion of the Security Screening Study, ERCOT will share the report with the IE using the RIOO-IS system.  The report shall indicate study assumptions, transfer analysis results, and whether a SSR study is required.  See below for more information on SSR.
When a GIM is “Cancelled” by ERCOT or “Withdrawn” by the IE, if the IE desires to proceed with the project at a later date, they must submit a new GIM application.  The IE may use INACTIVE status to gain time once the FIS has been completed.
Full Interconnection Study (FIS) 
Within 180 days of the date ERCOT notifies the IE of the SSS results, the IE must begin the FIS Request process to indicate its desire to pursue a Full Interconnection Study, or the GIM will be cancelled.  This is done by:
1.	 Submitting a change request on the RIOO-IS system to add the 
a.	Energization date
b.	Synchronization date 
c.	Attach the proof of site control
d.	If a MW size change is desired, change the MW size of your project and wait for this CR to be approved before proceeding to step 2.
2.	Entering the required resource data required for the FIS Proof of Site Control and resource data with data required by the Resource Registration Glossary – Full Interconnect Study (FIS)
After accepting the change request containing the proof of site control attachment and reviewing the resource data submitted by the IE, ERCOT will check the submissions and approve the FIS Application.  When the FIS Application is approved, RIOO-IS will generate an email to the Lead TSP to begin initiation and coordination of the FIS Kick-off meeting. 
IMPORTANT:  If you plan to reduce or increase the MW size of your project, it must be done before entry of Resource data for the FIS.  Change the MW size with the CR to change the dates and add proof of site control.  Payment will not reflect the new size if this CR is not submitted and approved by ERCOT.
Figure 9: To request a FIS study, click “Add a Change Request” in the Basic Project Information block to enter the Energization and Synchronization dates and attach the proof of site control. The resource data also needs to be added by clicking the “Let’s get Started” button in the Substation Details block.
The IE can begin the FIS Request by entering data for only the Steady State study, Short Circuit study, or the Stability and Dynamics study or any combination of the three studies.  RIOO will then indicate each data field that is required for the chosen Level of Commitment (LOC).
Figure 10 RIOO screen to select Level of Comittment
Figure 11 RIOO Screen showing the data fields required for the chosen level of comittment
The IE will pay FIS fees to both ERCOT using RIOO-IS, as specified in the ERCOT Fee Schedule, and to the TSP performing the studies in accordance with an agreement with the TSP.  Fees paid to the TSP should be agreed on and specified in the FIS Scope Agreement.  ERCOT is not a party to the FIS Scope Agreement.
As discussed in Section 5 of the Planning Guide, the FIS process consists of a set of steady-state, dynamic, short-circuit, and facility studies.  The FIS studies are not intended to ensure the deliverability of power from the proposed generation to the market or to ensure that the proposed generation does not experience any congestion-related curtailments in real-time.
Because the FIS is generally the critical path item in the GIM process with no defined length to complete, ERCOT recommends that a timetable for the FIS be developed and included in the FIS study scope agreement.  
See Planning Guide section 5.3.2, Full Interconnection Study Request, for more information regarding the FIS.
FIS Scope Meeting 
Within 10 Business Days of receiving the RIOO-IS data required to proceed with the FIS from the IE, ERCOT will designate the lead TSP for the FIS.  The selection of the lead TSP will be based upon a preliminary analysis of the most likely Point of Interconnection (POI).  The lead TSP will then arrange a FIS kick-off meeting with ERCOT, the IE and other TSPs desiring to participate in the study.  During the meeting, the IE will discuss the GIM application and the TSP will discuss the overall scope, timetable of activities, studies being performed, anticipated facilities needed, etc.  ERCOT will discuss the Security Screening Study results.
The date of the FIS kick-off meeting starts the 60-calendar day clock within which the IE and TSP should reach an agreement on the FIS scope.  ERCOT will attempt to mediate if an agreement cannot be reached within that period.  After the 60-day period, if no agreement is reached, the GIM may be terminated.   
FIS Study Process
Based on the overall scope established during the FIS kick-off meeting, the lead TSP shall use the data provided by ERCOT and the IE to develop and study the existing and future ERCOT system to determine the generator’s reliability impact at the proposed POI.  The TSP(s) will examine normal transmission operating conditions as well as potentially adverse, or contingency, conditions. 
In comparing interconnection alternatives, the TSP(s) will consider such information as interconnection cost and construction schedule, impact to short and long-range reliability, operational flexibility, and compatibility with future transmission plans. The TSP(s) may also consider interconnection alternatives not suggested by the IE or ERCOT.  ERCOT will perform an independent Economic Study for informational purposes if the TSP determines in the facility study that the estimated transmission interconnection costs could exceed $25 million dollars.
Following the completion and review of the FIS studies by the TSPs and approval by ERCOT, the report will be deemed complete, and the IE and TSP may execute a SGIA.
Subsynchronous Resonance Study (SSR)
The ERCOT Protocols section 3.22 contains detailed definitions and information pertaining to the Subsynchronous Resonance, countermeasure, protection, mitigation, etc. terminology used in this section.
If ERCOT determines during the Security Screening Study topology-check that the generator may be vulnerable to SSR, the lead TSP shall be notified that a SSR study is required.  The SSR study scope will be shared between ERCOT, TSPs and the IE and discussed during the FIS kick-off meeting, but the study itself is not part of the FIS.  
ERCOT will review the SSR study for approval.  If the study results determine that the Resource is vulnerable to SSR, the IE shall be responsible for either installing the appropriate SSR countermeasures or developing a SSR Mitigation Plan.  The ERCOT-approved SSR Protection scheme or Mitigation Plan must be installed and operational prior to Initial Synchronization.

Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement (SGIA)
Should the IE decide to proceed with the construction and completion of the proposed generation project, they shall execute a SGIA with the respective TSP.  ERCOT is not a party to the agreement.
The SGIA must be signed by all parties within 180 days following the completion of the FIS or, following notification by ERCOT, the GIM will be cancelled unless the IE requests and is granted an exception before expiration of the 180 days.  The exception will require that work has begun on the IA by both the IE and TSP and is confirmed by email by the TSP.
In certain situations, the IE and the TSP may agree to allow the TSP to begin design or construction of facilities prior to the execution of the SGIA, or to allow the IE to delay issuing a Notice to Proceed until sometime after the SGIA is signed.
Planning Guide section 6.9
Meeting the requirements of Planning Guide section 6.9 is an important milestone in the GIM process.  It is required to qualify for entry in the Quarterly Stability Assessment (QSA) and for submittal into the Network Operations Model.  It is also required to begin the Protocol section 16.5 Compliance with Operational Standards Review which will be reviewed prior to Initial Synchronization of the generator.  Generator’s designated as a small generator need to meet P.G. 6.9(3).
Reactive Study Requirements
The Interconnecting Entity is required to submit to ERCOT a reactive study that provides an engineering analysis of the reactive capability of the proposed interconnected generation facilities. This study shall include the list of equipment and systems that are to be installed to meet ERCOT reactive support requirements. It is recommended that the Interconnecting Entity incorporate in their project plan at least one month for ERCOT to review and approve the study with consideration for lead-time necessary for procurement of associated equipment. New generation facilities adding reactive equipment, in addition to the generation’s reactive capability specified in the ERCOT approved reactive study, shall have the reactive equipment installed in the field and ready to be placed in service at the time of Initial Synchronization. Protocol Section 3.15 Voltage Support provides more information about reactive requirements.
The Reactive Study is a requirement for the Quarterly Stability Assessment (QSA). 
Compliance with Operational Standards Review
After the SGIA is signed and Planning Guide section 6.9 is met, ERCOT will begin the Protocol section 16.5 (3) review and assess whether the proposed generator would violate any operational standards as established in the Protocols, Operating Guides, Market Guides or Other Binding Documents.  
ERCOT has 90-days from the date that PG 6.9 was met to complete its review and provide the IE a written determination of whether the proposed system design complies with the operational standards. 
If, based on the information contained in the FIS, IA, RARF and other submitted data, ERCOT determines that the Resource does not meet, or cannot determine whether the Resource will meet, the operational standards, ERCOT will provide a written document to the IE explaining the determination.  Additional data may have to be provided to ERCOT by updating the RARF or other required studies or documents.  Final determination of compliance with operational standards will occur during the Stage 3 process and is needed prior to synchronization.
Quarterly Stability Assessment (QSA)
ERCOT conducts a stability assessment every three months to assess the impact of planned new or modified generation proposing to synchronize to the ERCOT System five to seven months in the future as shown in PG 5.3.5, ERCOT Quarterly Stability Assessment, and repeated in the table below.  The QSA assesses the impact of proposed generation and determines if mitigation plans are required before the generator can synchronize to the ERCOT grid.
Generation not included in the quarter shown in the Initial Synchronization Quarter column in the table below will not be eligible for Initial Synchronization during that three-month period:
Generation Resource Initial Synchronization Quarter	Last Day for an IE to meet prerequisites as listed below	Completion of Quarterly Stability Assessment
Upcoming January, February, March	Prior August 1	End of October
Upcoming April, May, June	Prior November 1	End of January
Upcoming July, August, September	Prior February 1	End of April
Upcoming October, November, December	Prior May 1	End of July
The IE must have met the following requirements before being allowed to synchronize new or modified generation: 
•	Completed the requirements of Planning Guide Section 6.9, Addition of Proposed Generation to the Planning Models. 
•	Completed the following: 
•	FIS studies; 
•	Reactive Power Study; 
•	SSR study if required;
•	System improvements or mitigation plans that were identified in studies
•	Initial Compliance with Operational Standards review.
The summary results of the Quarterly Assessment will be posted to the MIS within ten days of completion.  Please refer to Planning Guide section 5.3.5 for detailed information pertaining to the QSA process. 
Small Generation Process:
The Small Generation process is governed by Planning Guide Section 5.4.  
A flow chart with more details of the Small Generation process flow is in Appendix H.  An example of the Small Gen Checklist is in Appendix K.
RIOO-IS Small Generation Initial Application Checks:
•	One-line diagram (Need the Load Transformer name on the One-Line)
•	Valid Load/Load Transformer information in RIOO-IS 
•	Site Photos, .kmz files, and/or Maps 
•	Proof of Site Control
•	Signed Declaration of Department of Defense (DOD) Notification 
•	Payment for Small Gen application  
Small Generator Review Meetings.  
These meetings are optional but are HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for new IEs or for an IE submitting a Small Generation application for the first time. The IE must request these meetings for any Small Generator interconnection request if they desire a meeting.  (These are optional as per Planning Guide Section 5.4.1) 
Small Gen Application Information (Planning Guide 5.4):
In addition to the above items, the following items / studies are required to submit the full Registration Level RARF in accordance with PG 5.4.3, Review and Approval to Submit Model Information. Please coordinate with your TDSP:
•	Initial RARF – Uploaded to RIOO by IE/RE (See the RARF Glossary for all required fields and data for Registration purposes)
•	Include the TDSP Station Name and Code for the Resource Site Name/Code in the General Site ESIID Form. (Resource Site/Station Code must be 8 digits)
•	Inverter and Technology data sheets and specs embedded to Gen Form – Dynamic Data tab
•	All Operation Limitations should be reflected in Gen Form – Operation Limitation tab
•	Only the Station tab information is required in the Transmission Form.  One-Line and Transformer Test Report tabs are still used.
•	Include Load Resource Form
•	System Impact Study – Conducted by TDSP (Operating Guide Section 2.9 [VRT], Operating Guide Section 2.6 and 2.9 [FRT and VRT] and Planning Guide Section 5.4.2)
•	Voltage Ride through (VRT)
•	Frequency Ride through (FRT)
•	Over/Under Frequency relaying
•	Primary Frequency Response 
•	DGR/DESR limitations (Min/Max MW charge/discharge and ramp rates limits)
•	Confirmation that TDSP’s system will not preclude compliance with ERCOT’s requirements
•	Operation Limitations to the DGR/DESR (If any) – Provided by TDSP via a Change Request in RIOO-IS (Planning Guide Section 5.4.2)
•	Confirmation that this DGR/DESR will not be a part of a Load Shedding scheme.  Line cannot be subject to a manual or automatic disconnection by the DSP, TSP, or TO as part of any under-frequency, under-voltage, or manual load shed scheme – Provided by TDSP via a Change Request in RIOO-IS (Protocol Section 3.8.6)
•	Confirmation the IE / RE has provided financial security sufficient to fund the Required Distribution System Upgrades identified by the TDSP (if any) – provided by TDSP via a Change Request in RIOO-IS (Planning Guide Section 5.4.2)
•	Fully Executed and Funded IA – Singed by TDSP and IE/RE, and submitted via a Change Request in RIOO-IS by the TDSP (Planning Guide Section 5)
•	Financial security to fund system upgrades (if any)
•	Notice to proceed
In order for ERCOT to approve the Registration level resource data in RIOO, all of these conditions described above must be met before ERCOT gives Approval to Submit Model Information. (Planning Guide Section 5.4.3).
Other Information and Links:
For more information regarding this process.  Please see the attached presentations.  Small Gen uses a System Impact Study.  Here is some additional information that may help you with this process.  Here are some links you should find useful for the specific rules associated with a DGR or DESR (Distribution Generation Resource or Distribution Energy Storage Resource). 

Distributed Generation information:  https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re/dgresource/
To start an interconnection application please follow this link:  https://sa.ercot.com/rioo-rs/
DGR and Impedance Calculations from a RIWG meeting: https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/02/18/Resource_Integration_Working_Group_DGR_Topics_02222022.pptx
Resource Registration Glossary: https://www.ercot.com/mktrules/guides/resourcereg/library
DGR workshop 12: https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2021/10/13/DGR_Workshop_12_.pptx
TDSP contacts: https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2021/11/23/Market_Participant_List.xls
 
STAGE 2 - Registration and Modeling 
Stage 2 of the Generation Interconnection Process involves the following steps:
•	Registering as a Resource Entity
•	Completing the Resource data entry in RIOO
•	Network Modeling Requirements
•	ERCOT Polled-Settlement Meters and ESI ID Requirements
•	Telemetry and ICCP Requirements
Registering as a Resource Entity
With the completion of a signed SGIA, a Resource Entity (RE) that will own or control a generator in the ERCOT market must be registered. Power Generation Companies operating within Texas are also required to register with the Public Utility Commission of Texas in accordance with PUCT Substantive rules which may be found at http://www.puc.texas.gov/.
The ERCOT account manager assigned to each RE will assist the applicant with registering as a Resource Entity.  The process generally takes 10 to 15 Business Days and is comprised of the following key submissions which may be found at ercot.com on the Registration & Qualification webpages:
•	Standard Form Market Participant Agreement
•	Resource Entity (RE) Application for Registration
•	Managed Capacity Declaration Form
•	Designation of authorized representatives, contacts, User Security Administrator, etc.
RIOO Resource Data Entry (Substation Data)
RIOO now contains screens for the IE/RE to enter resource data for the generator and associated substation equipment information needed for ERCOT systems. The content of RIOO’s resource data screens are governed by the Resource Registration Glossary.  RIOO shows the data fields that are required for the selected level of commitment as shown in Figure 11 above.  RIOO allows the following levels of commitment:
•	Full Interconnection Study (FIS) – either Steady State, Short Circuit, or Stability and Dynamic studies separately or any combination
•	Planning Model
•	Full Registration
Prior to Full Registration, ERCOT requests that the RE reach out to ERCOT at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the desired PLD to allow for calls and edits prior to submittal in RIOO-IS for review.  For Full Registration, the desired Production Load Date deadlines can be found in https://www.ercot.com/gridinfo/transmission/opsys-change-schedule. Resource data submitted after 15 days prior to the PLD deadline may not get processed in time to be included in the desired PLD!
Once a GIM has reached the PLD, data will move from RIOO-IS to RIOO-RS. From this point forward, the RE shall use RIOO-RS to submit changes to registration data.
Resource data for a Small Generator must use the simplified modeling approach.  This means that the Unit is modeled at the TDSP Station as shown below.
Current DGR Modeling Topology Examples:
Network Modeling Requirements
The ERCOT Network Operations Model is defined as: A representation of the ERCOT System providing the complete physical network definition, characteristics, ratings, and operational limits of all elements of the ERCOT Transmission Grid and other information from TSPs, Resource Entities, and QSEs.  ERCOT uses the physical characteristics, ratings, and operational limits provided by TSPs and REs to specify limits within which the ERCOT Transmission Grid will be operated.  The Network Operations Model is the basis for the model used to send accurate Base Points and pricing signals to Market Participants.  During the Modeling phase, data required for dispatching, metering, and communicating with the new or modified Resource will be established and verified.   The model is updated on a scheduled basis as shown in the Network Operations Model Change Schedule in Protocol 3.10.1.  Each BESS or ESR Unit needs to be an equivalent impedance for that Unit.  See here for more information:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/02/18/Resource_Integration_Working_Group_DGR_Topics_02222022.pptx
ERCOT will work with the IE to establish the all-important Production Load Date (PLD) on which ERCOT’s systems will link together the following key components:
•	Metering and Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS)
•	ERCOT market settlement information and pricing location
•	Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and Inter-Control Center Communication Protocol (ICCP) communication points
•	QSE and Resource Entity relationship and contact information
•	The Network Operations Model of the resource data for the new generator site
Establishing these links requires coordination between all involved Market Participants and internal ERCOT departments.  Appendix A of this document also provides a list of forms and links to the ERCOT website where Resource Entities can find the forms and additional information on how to submit modeling data to ERCOT. The PLD for loading the new generator and associated equipment into the Network Operations Model should precede the desired Planned Energization Date of the Point of Interconnection (Checklist Part 1) by at least 15- 30 days.  30 days is typical from PLD to energization.
The responsibility for model data submissions is shared between the TSP, QSE and RE. 
TSPs must submit:
•	Network Operations Model Change Request (NOMCR) for TSP facilities at the Point of Interconnection and any line owned by the TSP to connect the RE site
•	Outage requests for equipment being added or removed from the Network Operations Model
•	Telemetry points for line flow MW and MVAr of the line connecting the generator station to the TSP POI station.
•	Telemetry for KVM and KVT for voltage control 
QSEs must submit:
•	ICCP communication points for all required telemetry
•	Outage requests for all Transmission Facilities/equipment and all generators being added or removed from the Network Operations Model.  
o	For a new generation station that has multiple generator owners – a single QSE (the QSE for the Resource Entity submitting the resource data for the new station) is assigned the responsibility to enter all Transmission Facility outages in the Outage Scheduler regardless of which RE owns the Transmission Facilities at the station or any RE-owned line.  
o	Generator outages must be entered by the RE-owner’s QSE.  For Split Generation Resources, the Master QSE must enter the Resource’s outage.
REs must submit:	 
•	Modeling data for the new/modified generation including RE-owned and operated Transmission Facilities data through the ERCOT-prescribed process applicable to Resource Entities
•	Generation Node and Meter Mapping package (GENMAP) verification
The Generation Node and Meter Mapping (GENMAP) package is compiled by ERCOT and provided to the Resource Entity. The GENMAP package provides documentation on the modeled location of the Resource Node and EPS metering in the Network Operations Model as of the PLD. The Resource Entity will review and provide confirmation to ERCOT that the Generation Node and Meter Mapping is accurate by submitting the Resource Node & EPS Meter Mapping Verification document included in the Generation Node and Meter Mapping package.
All resource data submissions and verifications are designed to take effect on the PLD. On this day, with submission of the EPS Cutover form by the TSP, all telemetry and metering with ERCOT will be fully functional and the generator and associated equipment will appear in the ERCOT Network Operations Model. At this point, the generator site is modeled such that it later can be approved for energization, synchronization, and commissioning so that it can proceed to be dispatched, scheduled, and settled in ERCOT market systems.
ERCOT Polled-Settlement Meter and ESI ID Requirements
ERCOT maintains a Meter Data Acquisition System (MDAS) to collect all generation and load data for Settlement purposes as outlined in the Protocols and the Settlement Metering Operating Guide.  MDAS receives its data from ERCOT-Polled Settlement Meters (EPS) which are installed and maintained by TSPs.  Prior to installing EPS meters at generation facilities, TSPs must work with the RE to prepare an EPS Meter Design Proposal with one-line drawings, facility details and contact information.  
NOTE:  The EPS Meter Design Proposal needs to be submitted by the TSP before the Resource data is submitted by the RE so the meter proposal can be approved before the Resource data submittal deadline shown in protocol 3.10.1(3).  
To meet the ERCOT Polled Settlement Meter requirements, TSPs will submit the following to ERCOT:
•	Metering Plan
•	Design Proposal with one-lines
•	Meter Data Acquisition Form
•	Meter Cutover Form
TSPs may commence installation of the meters as soon as ERCOT approves the design.
Each service delivery point is assigned an Electronic Service Identifier (ESI ID) by ERCOT for settlement purposes.  Please refer to the ESI ID Service History and Usage Extract User Guide on the ERCOT User Guide webpage for detailed information.
Telemetry and ICCP Requirements
ERCOT interfaces with each QSE and TSP over a fully redundant, highly available Wide Area Network (WAN).  The WAN is designed for the normal and emergency exchange of Real-Time data and voice communications used for wholesale operations, frequency control, transmission security and emergency operations. 
Data exchange between ERCOT, QSEs and TSPs is accomplished by using Inter-control Center Communications Protocol (ICCP) as defined in Chapter 5 of the ICCP Handbook.  The data is used to support functions such as generation control, Current Operating Plans, Outage Scheduling, Dispatch Instructions, posting of information and other applications.  QSEs must work with interconnected TSPs and ERCOT to establish an ICCP points list based on the Resource data and NOMCRs approved for use in the Network Operations Model.
Wind Generation Resources (WGRs) and Photovoltaic Generation Resources (PVGRs) must also provide ICCP points for the site-specific meteorological data required for the Renewable Production Potential forecasts as specified in Protocols 4.2.2 Wind-Powered Generation and & 4.2.3 Photovoltaic Generation Resource Production Potential. 
In addition to SCED telemetry for the generator(s) and CLR(s), ICCP points for breaker/switch statuses, transformer low and high side kV, line flows MW/MVAr for both ends of the interconnecting line (QSE provides for the RE generation site end of the line and TSP provides for the TSP end of the line), transformer high-side MW/MVAr flows, capacitor/reactor and other reactive device MVAr, load MW/MVAr and generator gross and net MW/MVAr outputs, AVR status and PSS status must be supplied.
To assure that the new Resource station and generators will be added to the Network Operations Model on the PLD, the QSE needs to submit the ICCP Point List to ERCOT at least 30 days prior to the PLD. It is expected that the ICCP Points List includes parameters for the new generation and associated equipment, including the interconnecting transmission substation equipment at the Point of Interconnection. 
NOTE:  If insufficient telemetry data is provided during the modeling process, there is a high risk of delay in the energization, synchronization, and commissioning of the new generator.
Accurate and working telemetry and communication systems from the generation site to the QSE to ERCOT must be tested and proven reliable prior to submittal of the Part 1 checklist for energization and Part 2 checklist for synchronization of all new or modified RE and TSP facilities. 
Data Center Loads and/or PUN Loads with IRR Generation
For co-located data center loads and/or PUN loads netted with IRR generation, an additional telemetry data point, Gross Real-Time Power Potential (GRPP), will need to be added to reflect the real-time power potential of the IRR. 
STAGE 3: Energization, Synchronization and Commissioning 
Stage 3 involves the following steps:
•	Final Compliance with Operational Standards Review
•	New Generator Commissioning Part 1, 2, and 3 Checklists
•	Commissioning Plan Template
•	Commissioning Process
•	Reactive Capability, AVR, PSS and Performance Testing
•	Resource Status during Testing 
Final Compliance with Operational Standards 
As stated in Protocol 16.5 Registration of a Resource Entity, an IE shall not proceed to Initial Synchronization of a generation resource in the event of any of the following conditions:
•	ERCOT has reasonably determined that the generation resource may violate operational standards established in the Protocols, Planning Guide, Nodal Operating Guides, or Other Binding Documents
•	The Resource Entity has not yet demonstrated to ERCOT’s satisfaction that the generation resource can comply with the Operational Standards.
•	The requirements of Planning Guide 5.3.5, Quarterly Stability Assessment, have not been completed
•	Any required sub-synchronous resonance studies have not been completed and approved by ERCOT as specified in the ERCOT Protocols and any required mitigation or monitoring has not been completed.
Based on ERCOT’s review of the Operational Standards requirements, the RE will be notified by email if the generator to be synchronized has passed or failed to meet the Protocol requirements.    A copy of the compliance report will be available in RIOO-IS.  Initial synchronization will not be allowed until all Operational Standards requirements have been satisfied.
Planning Guide Applicability
•	New units that meet PG 5.2.1 and go through the INR process will be required to do Part 1, 2 and 3 checklists 
•	New units that do not meet PG 5.2.1, and do not go through the INR process, will be required to submit new resource data and do Part 1, 2 and 3 checklists
•	Existing units that meet PG 5.2.1and go through the INR process will be required to do Part 2 and 3 checklists but do not have to do Part 1
•	Existing units that do not meet PG 5.2.1- will be required to submit new resource data but will not be required to do Part 1, 2, and 3 checklists
Background
Stage 3 is primarily governed by the ERCOT New Generator Commissioning Checklist and the Commissioning Plan Template, which are available on the ERCOT website.  The Generator Commissioning checklist and Commissioning Plan Template process is initiated by the Resource Entity/QSE, and all approvals are made by ERCOT Resource Integration.
ERCOT New Generator Commissioning Checklist
The three-part ERCOT New Generator Commissioning Checklist is designed to coordinate the energization, synchronization, and commissioning of a new or modified generator once all qualification measures have been met to the satisfaction of ERCOT.  
The three parts of the Generator Commissioning Checklist for interconnection requests representing new generation are:
•	Part 1:  Request for Energization of Resource Entity Equipment
•	Part 2:  Request for Initial Synchronization 
•	Part 3:  Request to Commission a Resource
Checklist Submissions for Existing Generation meeting PG 5.2.1(1)(c)(ii) Seeking to Increase Output:
For interconnection requests representing modified Wind Generation Resources meeting PG 5.2.1(1)(c)(ii), Applicability, the Checklist Part 2 above is replaced by the following two Checklist parts, submitted before and after modification:
Part 2a:  Request for Wind Units meeting PG 5.2.1(1)(c)(ii) Pre-Synchronization [QSE submits checklist to request approval to begin re-power work at the site]
Part 2b:  Request for Wind Units meeting PG 5.2.1(1)(c)(ii) Initial Synchronization [QSE submits checklist prior to desired Initial Synchronization of first re-powered turbine]
For modified Wind Generation Resources meeting PG 5.2.1(1)(c)(ii), Applicability, Checklist Part 1 is not necessary and Checklist Part 3 is unchanged.
Upon reaching Stage 3 of the interconnection process, these REs and/or QSEs are required to submit the Checklist Part 2 and 3. Checklist Part 1 is not necessary, but the telemetry points listed in Part 1 are still required.   Parts 2 and 3 are necessary to ensure the resource is modeled correctly and able to pass all required testing up to the increased capability. This check also helps ensure that any generation previously exempt from PSS requirements as indicated in Section 2.2.6 of the ERCOT Nodal Operating Guides that have done work on their excitation systems have installed a PSS and are operating with it in service.
RIOO-IS Commissioning Planned Dates
It is very important to update RIOO-IS planned commissioning dates for Energization, Synchronization and Commercial Operation.  RIOO-IS dates are used by ERCOT teams for timing of GTC updates and other key steps during commissioning.  NOTE: If these RIOO-IS planned dates are not kept updated, the project could experience delays in approvals for energization, synchronization, and the commissioning of the generators.
Commissioning Plan Template
The Commissioning Plan Template provides in-depth details on how the facility will be operated during all three stages of the Checklist, including testing of generation and control systems while supporting grid security in accordance with ERCOT Operational Standards.  Within 15 days of receipt, ERCOT shall review the commissioning plan and provide feedback with regards to compliance with operational standards and identify possible operational limitations during the commissioning process. The commissioning plan must include the planned dates for all ERCOT required testing.
The 8 sections of the Commissioning Plan Template are:
•	Section 1:  General Resource Description
•	Section 2:  Resource Controls
•	Section 3:  Resource Shut-Down Sequences
•	Section 4:  Resource Telemetry Verification
•	Section 5:  Resource Commissioning Milestones
•	Section 6:  Resource Detailed Commissioning Schedule
•	Section 7:  Resource Design Capabilities
•	Section 8:  Process Notes and Descriptions
All 8 sections of the commissioning plan must be completed before submitting it to ERCOT in RIOO-IS.  
The ERCOT New Generator Commissioning Checklist and Commissioning Plan Template verify critical communication points and generation security measures before allowing the Resource Entity to energize the point of interconnection, synchronize generation, and prepare for commissioning of the Resource. 
ERCOT 90-day expectation for the Commissioning Process of a Resource
If the RE believes that it will take more than 90 days from initial synchronization of the generator to commissioning, the RE needs to provide a statement of the reason for it taking more than 90 days with the Commissioning Plan.  As the Resource commissioning progresses, the RE needs to keep ERCOT advised as to the reasons for any delays that may cause there to be more than 90 days from initial synchronization to Part 3 approval for a generator.
Outage Scheduler
The generator has the responsibility to provide accurate and timely updates to the Outage Scheduler to reflect their expected future equipment unavailability if they are expecting not to be capable of generating at their modeled maximum output level due to equipment derates or generation equipment commissioning progression.  Prior to approval of each stage of commissioning and on an on-going basis, the Outage Scheduler must be updated to accurately reflect the generator’s future derate amount, start time and end time.  Outage submission requirements are outlined in ERCOT Nodal Protocols Section 3.1.  
[Note: ERCOT’s renewable forecasts make predictions 168 hours (7 days) into the future. Because of this, ERCOT needs accurately updated outage scheduler information 7 days into the future. If the derate has an end-date that is tentative during the commissioning at the site, then the RE/QSE need to review derates daily, to ensure it is accurate for at least 7 days into the future.  Also, be aware that Information regarding planned daily capacity that is provided in the Commissioning Plan is for coordination purposes only during commissioning and is not a substitute for the entries of deratings in the Outage Scheduler].
Commissioning Process
At least 30 days before the RE plans to submit Checklist Part 1, the RE is required to submit a completed Commissioning Plan Template.   
Checklist submittals and approval:
•	Separate Generator Commissioning Checklists must be submitted for each new generator associated with the same Point of Interconnection. RE/QSE will submit all Checklists to ERCOT using the RIOO-IS application.
•	Prior to submitting Part 1 (Energization) of the Checklist, the QSE, Resource Entity, and interconnecting Transmission Service Provider shall ensure that the transmission switchyard facilities have been adequately constructed and modeled in ERCOT’s Network Operations Model and are ready for energization and operation as part of the ERCOT system.
•	ERCOT recommends that Part 1 of the Checklist be submitted at least 7 Business Days in advance of the planned date of the initial energization of the Point of Interconnection.
•	ERCOT will provide a response to a submitted Checklist part within 7 Business Days of receipt.
•	ERCOT recommends that Checklist Part 2 be submitted after approval of Checklist Part 1 by ERCOT and successful energization of the RE site and be at least 7 Business Days from the date ERCOT approves the previous Checklist part.
•	Checklist Part 3 can only be submitted after satisfactory completion of required testing and approval by ERCOT.
•	Any Checklist Part submitted prior to receiving approval of the previous Checklist Part will be considered as being submitted on the next business day after the approval of the previous Checklist part by ERCOT
Additional Details on Commissioning Checklist Submissions
ERCOT reviews and approves Checklist submissions for execution on Business Days only, during the hours of 8 AM to 5 PM Central Prevailing Time (CPT). On Friday’s and the day before ERCOT holidays, Checklists will be either approved before 2 PM CPT or the review will resume on the next Business Day.  Checklist submissions received by ERCOT after 2 PM CPT will be considered as received by ERCOT on the following Business Day. 
ERCOT Checklist approval will be communicated by Resource Integration to the IE Contacts listed on RIOO-IS.  RE and QSE contacts will be notified by their ERCOT Account Manager of the checklist approval.  
Upon receipt of Part 1 of the Checklist, ERCOT shall review it for accuracy and completeness. ERCOT shall then perform a verification of the network model and SCADA telemetry before providing energization approval. Telemetry must be good quality and reasonable for at least 48 hours prior to ERCOT approval.  ERCOT shall provide a response within 7 Business Days of receipt. If any problems are encountered with the network model or SCADA telemetry that cannot be readily resolved, ERCOT shall reject Part 1 of the Checklist, and request the QSE, Resource Entity or Transmission Service Provider, where appropriate, to review and correct any outstanding issues as required, and have the RE resubmit Checklist Part 1.  Part 1 of the Checklist shall not be approved until all identified problems have been resolved to the satisfaction of ERCOT. 
The above process applies with Checklist Part 2. ERCOT shall review the model and telemetry and will reject Part 2 of the Checklist if any problems are encountered that cannot be readily resolved.  Telemetry must be good quality and reasonable for at least 48 hours prior to ERCOT approval.  
ERCOT’s approval of Part 1 and Part 2 checklists, energization of the generator’s Point of Interconnection and synchronization of the generator to the grid, is given for a specific target day requested by the Resource Entity (Part 1) or QSE (Part 2) and is subject to real-time grid operating conditions. Accordingly, the Resource Entity’s QSE must contact the ERCOT control room on the day of energization as per ERCOT’s Operating Procedures and receive permission to proceed prior to station energization or synchronization of the generation. 
If system conditions are such that energizing the generator station facilities or allowing the generation to synchronize to the grid will place unnecessary risk to the ERCOT Transmission Grid, ERCOT System Operators have the authority to cancel or otherwise prohibit these actions. 
Checklist Part 3 approval requires verification of several generator capabilities such as reactive capability, primary frequency response, base point compliance during curtailment and voltage control. Obtaining approval of Checklist Part 3 is dependent on the time necessary for the RE and QSE to commission the equipment and conduct all required performance testing. Once all testing has been performed, ERCOT shall review all test results within 30 days of test submittal and approve Checklist Part 3 within 7 business days of submittal as appropriate.  The reactive test and AVR test need to both be submitted before review will begin.  The review will then have 30 days after the submittal of the latest of the two tests. It’s best to submit all testing to ERCOT as soon as possible to allow sufficient time to review.  If any issues are identified with regards to performance testing that cannot be readily resolved, ERCOT shall reject the Part 3 submittal, and request the QSE, Resource Entity or Transmission Service Provider, where appropriate, review and correct any outstanding issues as required, and then resubmit Checklist Part 3. Part 3 of the Checklist shall not be approved until all identified problems have been resolved to the satisfaction of ERCOT.
Checklist Part 3 requires submittal of 5 minutes of sample PMU data during a period that the generators are on-line with outputs greater than zero.  The PMU data needs to comply with Operating Guide Section 6.1.3 Phasor Measurement Recording Equipment Including Dynamic Disturbance Recording Equipment.  The PMU sample data file is in the form of worksheet or comma separated data file.  Column A is the Date/Timestamp followed by columns for voltage phasor magnitude and angle for each phase, current phasor magnitude and angle for each phase, frequency and df/dt.  There should be at least 30 data rows per second.  Sample PMU data files need to be uploaded to RIOO-IS for each generator or if PMU data for IRRs is collected on the high side of the MPT, then at least one file for each MPT.  File name needs to identify the INR#, project name, station code and generator or MPT codes.  File names can only include alpha-numeric characters, underscores, and dashes.  It is suggested that the sample PMU files be provided during Part 3 testing.
Checklist Part 3 for Generation Resources and Energy Storage Resources requesting to commission a Resource during the winter months (December through February), the Declaration of Preparedness – Generation Entity Winter Weatherization required by Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rule 25.55(c)(3)(A), require statement of the date that it was submitted.  Likewise for summer months (June through September), the Declaration of Preparedness – Generation Entity Summer Weatherization required by PUCT Substantive Rule 25.55(c)(3)(B) and Attachment K: Declaration of Natural Gas Pipeline Coordination was submitted require a statement of the date that it was submitted.   
Checklist Part 3 requires acknowledgement that a Plant Verification Report is required to be submitted to ERCOT within 30 days following Part 3 approval in accordance with PG 5.5.
The Checklist Part 3 approval by ERCOT represents the Resource Commissioning Date and approval for participation in ERCOT market operations. This represents that final review by ERCOT and initial qualification testing by the RE has been completed and the generator has progressed out of the interconnection process.  [Note:  Ancillary Service testing and qualifications are separate from Part 3 testing.]
Base Point, Reactive Power Capability, VSS, AVR, PFR and PSS Testing
For the generator to be commissioned and approved for participation in ERCOT market operations, it must demonstrate that it can satisfy ERCOT’s requirements for following its base points (during curtailments for IRRs and IRR Groups), Reactive Power (both leading and lagging), Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR), Primary Frequency Response (PFR), and Power System Stabilizer (PSS), as applicable to the generation type. 
These performance tests are some of the final steps before the commissioning of a generator. ERCOT may direct the generator to isolate from the grid until the required testing has been completed or mitigation plans have been established to address operational risks until the testing can be completed.
Base Point following during Curtailment – IRRs and IRR Groups
Due to increased numbers of Generic Transmission Constraints and IROLs, ERCOT is requiring IRRs and IRR Groups to perform Curtailment testing before allowing IRRs and IRR Groups to connect more than 20 MVA of generation capacity to the Point of Interconnection during commissioning. Per protocol requirement 6.5.7.4 and 6.6.5.4, IRR units should follow SCED Base Points when curtailed.  A curtailed IRR that is not in an IRR Group will receive telemetered SBBH (SCED Base Point Below HDL) telemetry flag that is set to “ON” and should follow it’s telemetered Base Point.  IRR Groups are curtailed if any IRR in the IRR Group receives a telemetered SBBH flag of “ON” and the IRR Group total output should be curtailed to the sum of the Base Points for the IRRs in the IRR Group.
There are two forms of curtailment test depending on if the IRR under test a single unit or part of an IRR Group is (which is comprised of multiple IRR units). Below is an example of the Curtailment test procedure for a single IRR and the expected response from the unit followed by an example of Curtailment of an IRR Group.
IRR Unit Curtailment Testing (Note:  Use the following process for an individual IRR that is not in an IRR Group)
Step #0: Following approval to conduct the Curtailment Self-Test, set RST to “ONTEST” (RST=8) for the unit.
Step #1: Set Curtailment Flag to True (SBBH=True) and BP = 0 MW for the unit 
•	This sends a curtailment to 0 MW to the unit
•	The unit should respond to the curtailment and the output is expected to be equal to zero MW.
•	Maintain the curtailment for 15 minutes 
•	Note that ERCOT will evaluate how the unit’s output (MW), HSL, ramping rate and turbines/inverters availability are telemetered during a 15-minute observation period.
Step #2: Following the completion of the above 15 minutes, set Curtailment Flag to False (SBBH=False) for the unit. 
•	This releases the unit from curtailment. 
•	The unit should ramp up its power output until the unit’s output (MW) matches its HSL.
Step #3: Following the completion of the above test, set RST to “ON” (RST=3) for the unit so it can follow SCED curtailment instructions.
•	Note that ERCOT will observe the 10 minutes period after the completion of the test to analyze how the unit’s output (MW), HSL, ramping rate and turbines/inverters availability are telemetered.
 Step#4: Provide ERCOT with the date and beginning/ending times of the Curtailment Self-Test.
IRR Group Curtailment Testing (Note: The IRR Group is being curtailed at each step below; these are not individual unit curtailments)
Step #0: Following approval to conduct the IRR Group Curtailment Self-Test, to begin the test, set RST telemetered to ERCOT to “ONTEST” (RST=8) for all the units in the IRR Group.
Step #1:  QSE sends telemetry to Resources setting Curtailment Flag to True (SBBH=True) and BP = 0 MW for the first unit of the IRR Group.  This should be recognized as an IRR Group curtailment.  If any unit in the IRR Group receives a SBBH = True, then the IRR Group is being curtailed.  During IRR Group curtailment, the HSL for all units in the IRR Group should be telemetered to ERCOT as the unit’s output capability considering wind-speed/irradiance and the number of turbines/inverters available to generate.
•	The IRR Group should respond to the curtailment and the group’s output is expected to be equal to group’s output prior to Step #1 minus the first unit’s output prior to Step #1 (“X1” MW).  In this step the IRR Group is curtailed by a total of X1 MW.
•	Maintain the IRR Group curtailment for 15 minutes 
•	Note that ERCOT will observe the 15 minutes period to analyze how the IRR Group output (sum of the group’s unit MW output), IRR Group unit’s HSL, ramping rate and turbines/inverters availability are telemetered.
•	Repeat Step #1 for the remaining units within IRR Group.  Each time, curtailment test increases the IRR Group curtailment amount by the pre-curtailment output of the next unit within the same IRR Group in successive steps.  Following the initial curtailment, the IRR Group is then curtailed by the second unit’s pre-curtailment MW output (“X2” MW), and then in the next step by the third unit’s pre-curtailment output (“X3” MW), and so on.
•	When the IRR group is curtailed by the pre-curtailment output of the last unit in the IRR Group, the group output is expected to be equal to zero MW.
Step #2: Following the completion of the above IRR Group curtailment periods, set Curtailment Flag to False (SBBH=False) for all the IRR Group units. 
•	This releases the IRR Group from curtailment. 
•	The IRR Group should ramp up output until the IRR Group output (sum of its units’ MW outputs) matches the sum of the IRR Group units’ HSL.
Step #3: Following the completion of the above test, set RST telemetered to ERCOT to “ON” (RST=3) for the IRR Group units so it the IRR Group can follow SCED curtailment instructions.
•	Note that ERCOT will observe the 10 minutes period after the completion of the test to analyze how the IRR Group unit’s output (MW), HSL, ramping rate and turbines/inverters availability are telemetered.

 Step#4: Provide ERCOT with the date and beginning/ending times of the IRR Group Curtailment Self-Test.
The curtailment test will confirm the ability of a single IRR unit or an IRR Group to follow the SCED Base Point and to respond in a proper way when released from curtailment as well as the accuracy of the telemetry. When an IRR unit is not curtailed, HSL is expected to be equal to unit’s output. However, when the IRR unit is curtailed, its HSL should reflect the available capacity in power production which is a function of the available turbine/inverters and meteorological conditions (wind speed and solar irradiance). In other words, HSL should correlate with the wind speed/ solar irradiance if the number of turbine/inverters is not changed when curtailed. When an IRR unit is curtailed, the wind turbine/ inverters in operations should be telemetered as NTON (available). The HSL should have a smooth transition prior and post curtailment, and HSL is not expected to drop to the unit’s output when the curtailment is lifted. In addition, the units up/down ramp rate telemetry should be accurate, and the units must follow this ramp rate when being curtailed to ensure the reliability of ERCOT’s grid.
Reactive Power Capability
Typically, coordinated Reactive Power Capability tests are performed in coordination with ERCOT and the TSP as described in Operating Guide section 3.3.2.2 Reactive Testing Requirements.  Although the ERCOT Operating Guides recommend maximum leading reactive tests be performed in low load months, and maximum lagging reactive tests be performed in high load months, this is often not possible for initial operation. Coordinated Reactive testing is generally required for Part 3 approval. 
If issues arise in completing a non‐coordinated reactive test, then a coordinated reactive test will be required. No extensions to complete reactive testing for Part 3 approval are provided. If either leading or lagging reactive test cannot be completed due to RE plant limitations, the issues must be resolved, and a new reactive test conducted. 
All Resources need to submit a Reactive Test through NDCRC.  DGRs or DESRs that are in a fixed power factor (unity power factor) control mode need to submit a reactive test with 0’s or 0.1 for all MVAr values.
Voltage Support Service (VSS) 
All Generation Resources connecting over 20 MVA of gross capacity or those units connected at the same Point of Interconnection aggregating to greater than 20 MVA of gross capacity shall provide VSS according to Protocol Section 3.15 (2) Voltage Support. This means that Generation Resources, such as wind or solar plants that plan on energizing their facility as new equipment is installed, shall meet the requirement to provide VSS as required in the Protocols once the gross connected capacity of the generation resource exceeds 20 MVA. 
If unable to provide VSS until the generation resource is fully constructed, the Resource Entity may continue commissioning the new equipment so long as the Resource Entity has only 20 MVA of equipment energized at a time. 
For IRRs, once a generation unit has enough generation capacity available for AVR, PFR and VSS control and has passed a curtailment self-test and has submitted an email attestation to ERCOT Resource Integration of being able to provide this control, the Resource Entity can request approval from ERCOT to connect more than 20 MVA and up to the capability at which the generation unit(s) can provide VSS and voltage control. 
The way a generation resource can operate above 20 MVA shall be documented in the Commissioning Plan.  For Intermittent Renewable Resources planning on providing VSS in part using capacitor and reactive banks, it is encouraged that those reactive devices be installed by the beginning of Stage 3 (prior to Checklist Part 1 approval) to maximize output from the generator during the Commissioning process.  Note that capacitor and reactor banks can only be used to make up for losses from the generator terminal to the POIB.
Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR) 
Operating Guide Section 2 governs AVR tests and testing.  All generators are required to have an AVR and have it on-line when generating.  AVR testing is done in accordance Operating Guide section 2.2.5, Automatic Voltage Regulators and varies slightly by technology type.  A Resource Entity required to provide VSS shall maintain the generator voltage or Reactive Power schedule to maintain voltage at the POIB to be within a tolerance band of the Voltage Set Point while operating at less than or equal to the maximum reactive capability of the Generation Resource.  A Generation Resource’s POIB voltage may be out of the tolerance band ONLY if it has exhausted all of its reactive capability.  The tolerance bands are as follows:
Voltage tolerance band in Op Guide 2.7.3.5(4):
Nominal Voltage	Tolerance
Band KV
345	+/- 4kV
230	+/- 3kV
138	+/- 2kV
115	+/- 2kV
69	+/- 1kV
The required VSS response times for Generation Resources when voltage measurements at the POIB are outside of the Voltage Set Point tolerance band identified in paragraph (4) of Section 2.7.3.5, Resource Entity Responsibilities and Generation Resource Requirements, then the unit mvar capability and all switchable shunts (If applicable) must be fully deployed in no more than five minutes.  The following document are posted at https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/integration:
•	Combined AVR Template  is used to complete the AVR test for IRRs, ESRs and conventional generators.  
•	AVR Testing Expectations for IRR explains what is expected for the IRR AVR test.
•	AVR and PSS Test Guidelines for Conventional Generation explains what is expected for the conventional generation AVR test.
•	AVR Test Guidelines for DESRs (DGRs) explains what is expected for distribution connected Resources (DGRs, DESRs).
Here is how the AVR test should work:
Primary Frequency Response (PFR)
PFR testing is performed in accordance with Nodal Operating Guide Section 8, Attachment C. Test data is submitted to ERCOT via NDCRC.
Power System Stabilizer (PSS)
Synchronous generators must have a PSS installed per Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.2.6. PSS testing requirements are included in Nodal Operating Guide Section 2.2.6(7).
Generator Status during the Commissioning Process - ONTEST, ON and OUT Status 
During the commissioning process for new unit(s), the QSE will submit a generator status in the COP and telemetry in accordance with Protocol section 3.9.1 Current Operating Plan (COP) Criteria. 
•	Before approval of Part 2 up to 20 MVA, the Resource status of “OUT” is expected with associated Outage Scheduler entry with HSL = 0.
•	After approval of Part 2 up to 20 MVA of connected capacity (IRRs and BESS) when the unit is on-line:
o	Resource status of “ONTEST” is expected if the AVR, PFR, VSS and curtailment controls are not yet functioning – this indicates to SCED that the unit(s) can’t curtail output under full automatic control.
o	Outage Scheduler entry for HSL is entered based on connected capacity and operating conditions
o	Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) units need to demonstrate the correct telemetry for both charging load and discharging generation as a portion of the telemetry check-out before approval to lift the 20 MVA limit.
•	After approval of Part 2 over 20 MVA connected capacity - 
o	IRRs having their control system in automatic control mode and having passed the Curtailment Test), when the unit(s) are on-line, it is expected that the generator status will be “ON” except during PFR, AVR and Leading and Lagging Reactive testing and  for a limited number of hours for specific tests that would require a certain level of MW output in order to tune controls for Part 3 testing or other specific exceptional cases.  Requests for unit testing are submitted by the QSE to ERCOT Operations.
o	When the unit(s) are unavailable a generator Status is expected to be “OUT”.  When a unit is sending real-time telemetry status of “OUT”, it also should reflect this in its COP to let ERCOT know how long it will be unavailable.  In this sense, COP status and real-time Resource status (RST) should match if the status is “OUT”.
o	The use of “OFF” status is not expected during the commissioning process because it would indicate that the unit(s) are “off-line but available” for RUC and DAM dispatch which would not be the typical case.
o	Solar units - at night, would not use “OUT” status unless the unit is on outage or the breaker is open.  As long as the unit is on-line at night but not injecting power, it should continue to send “ONTEST” before Part 2 over 20 MVA approval. Following Part 2 over 20 MVA approval it should send the “ON” status.  A telemetered AVR status of “ON” indicates the unit’s AVR system’s ability to change unit MVAr output within the registered reactive capabilities at the current unit MW output level to control voltage.
o	Non-IRR units can request unit testing and if approved can use the “ONTEST” status during commissioning.  Use of the “ON” status requires following of SCED Base Points.  Requests for unit testing are submitted by the QSE to ERCOT Operations.
Note: Generators using an “ON” status are subject to Base Point Deviation charges and GREDP monitoring.
Operation Requirement of Data Center Loads and/or PUN loads with IRR Generation
•	QSEs need to estimate load consumption for PUN load or Data Center load for the next 168 hours
•	QSEs will deduct the estimated load consumption from the vendor-provided IRR forecast to update the COP HSL, which would need to be reduced further if there is any equipment outage or derate that is not reported in the Outage Scheduler. 
Forecasting vendors will produce the forecast for the gross capability for the next 168 hours to estimate the power potential for the IRR 
APPENDIX A: Helpful Resources and Links 
Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) Substantive Rules 25.198 governs the initiation of transmission service in Texas, and Substantive Rule §25.109 outlines the certification, licensing, and registration of generators. ERCOT Protocol Section 16.5 identifies additional requirements related to the registration of the Resource Entity as a Market Participant and the generation that it will represent in the ERCOT market.
Refer to the following links for additional information.
PUCT rules:  http://www.puc.texas.gov/agency/rulesnlaws/subrules/electric/Electric.aspx. 
ERCOT Protocols: http://www.ercot.com/mktrules/nprotocols/current
ERCOT Planning Guides: http://www.ercot.com/mktrules/guides/planning/current
GIM (GINR) application forms and registration information is available on the ERCOT website at:
http://www.ercot.com/services/rq/integration
Interconnecting Distributed Generation (less than 10 MW and at voltages below 60-kV) is described in PUCT substantive Rule 25.211, and is not discussed in this document.
Planning Guide Section 5:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2021/12/29/05-PG-010122.docx
Here is the Resource Integration Page:  https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/integration
Distributed Generation information:  https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re/dgresource/
To start an interconnection application please follow this link:  https://sa.ercot.com/rioo-rs/
IE sign up guide:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/01/14/IE-SignUp-Guide-for-RIOO-Services.pdf
RE sign up guide:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/01/14/RE-SignUp-Guide-for-RIOO-Services.pdf
TDSP sign up guide:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/01/14/TSP-Sign-Up-for-RIOO-Services.pdf
Managing your RIOO account:  https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/01/14/Managing-Your-RIOO-Services-User-Account.pdf
Here is the ICCP Handbook on the RE page: https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/02/10/ERCOT_Nodal_ICCP_Communications_Handbook.docx 
Here is a presentation that you may find particularly interesting: https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2022/02/18/Resource_Integration_Working_Group_DGR_Topics_02222022.pptx
Here is the Resource Entity page on ercot.com: https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re
Here is the RARF Glossary Site: https://www.ercot.com/mktrules/guides/resourcereg/library
EPS Meter Design Proposal site: https://www.ercot.com/mktinfo/metering/eps/index.html
DGR workshop 12: https://www.ercot.com/calendar/10142021-DGR-Workshop-XII-by
TDSP contacts: https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2021/11/23/Market_Participant_List.xls 
APPENDIX B: LIST OF ERCOT FORMS FOR INTERCONNECTION PROCESS
http://www.ercot.com/content/wcm/lists/168310/SGIA.doc			
Process/Form	Entity	Access Location	Submission Location
Generation Interconnection or Change Request (GIM (GINR))	IE	RIOO-IS
Screening Study Data submission	IE	RIOO-IS
SGIA	IE	SGIA
RIOO-IS
Resource Entity Registration	RE	RE Registration
Resource Entity Application 
Standard Market Participant Agreement	RE	SFMA
Managed Capacity Declaration Form	RE	Managed Capacity Form
MIS or ercotregistration@ercot.comand MPRegistration@ercot.com
Resource Asset Registration Form (RARF)	RE	RARF Forms
MIS or mpappl@ercot.com and resourcereg@ercot.com 
Resource Registration Glossary	IE/RE	Res Reg Glossary
EPS Design Proposal	TSP/RE	EPS Metering Design Proposal
epsmetering@ercot.com
MDAS Form	TSP/RE	MDAS Form
mreads@ercot.com
EPS Cutover Form	TSP/RE	EPS Cutover Form
epsmetering@ercot.com, 1ERCOTEAADataAggregation@ercot.com
Outage Schedule	QSE	MIS System	Through MIS outage scheduler
QSE ICCP Points List	QSE	MIS System	Through MIS service request
New Generation Checklist	RE	New Gen Checklist
RIOO-IS
Request for Unit Testing	QSE	Operating Procedures	Sent to the ERCOT Shift Supervisor: shiftsupv@ercot.com.
Commissioning Plan Template	QSE	Comm Plan Template
RIOO-IS
Net Dependable Capability and Reactive Capability (NDCRC)	QSE	MIS System	Through MIS dashboard
APPENDIX C: NAMING CONVENTIONS
LLC names – not used by ERCOT Operations, not used by ERCOT Planning, and they are therefore unrestricted.
Sitecode names – used by Operations in switching orders and used by Planning in modeling. Therefore, it is critical that they are clear and distinct and not easily confused with anything else.  There is an 8-character limit in the Sitecode name.  A certain amount of human judgment goes into accepting new names.  For example, “Heart Solar” and “Hart Solar” sound alike and either one could be okay, but not both.  Sometimes similar names can be tolerated if they are geographically far apart.
Project names – used by Planning and all other departments in all other communications.  Ideally the project name would be the same as the Sitecode, and it is convenient for the project name to include “wind” or “solar” or “gas” instead of “ranch” or “farm” or “project.”  For example, if the project name is Ibis Wind, then the Sitecode can be IBIS_W and everyone can easily recognize it.
Commission Plan file names - Include the GIM (GINR) number at the end of the filename before the extension and include the GIM (GINR) number in the subject line of all emails regarding the commissioning plan.  
Commissioning Checklist file name -   [Gen site name] & [unit name] & “Part” & [1,2, or 3] & “Checklist” & [Date Submitted] & “.pdf”. 
APPENDIX D:  LARGE GEN TIMELINE 1
APPENDIX E:  LARGE GEN TIMELINE 2
APPENDIX F:  SMALL GEN TIMELINE 1
APPENDIX G: SMALL GEN TIMELINE 2
APPENDIX H:  SMALL GEN PROCESS FLOWCHART (Zoom In for more details)
APPENDIX I:  GIM (GINR) TABULAR TIMELINE:
Task	Responsible Entity	Time Required to Complete 
Acknowledgement of GIM (GINR) Application	ERCOT	1 to 10 Business Days
Notification of Additional Information Needed to Complete Application	ERCOT	1 to 10 Business Days
Perform Security Screening Study (after application is deemed complete)	ERCOT	10 to 90 days
Decision to Pursue FIS (following issuance of Security Screening Study by ERCOT)	IE	Up to 180 days
Develop Scope Agreement for FIS (following IE’s Notification to ERCOT of desire for FIS and remittance of appropriate fees)	IE, ERCOT, and TSP(s)	Up to 60 days
Perform FIS (following agreement on scope)		40 to 300 days
Steady-State and Transfer Analysis	TSP(s)	10 to 90 days
System Protection Analysis (following Steady-State Analysis)	TSP(s)	10 to 30 days
Dynamic and Transient Stability Analysis (following System Protection Study)	TSP(s)	10 to 90 days
Facility Study	TSP(s)	10 to 90 days
SSR	TSP(s)	60 to 180 days
Study Report Review and Acceptance (following issuance of FIS)	ERCOT, and TSP(s)	10 to 15 Business Days
FIS Posted to Market Information System (MIS)	ERCOT	Within 10 days of being deemed complete
Report stability resolution findings to ERCOT	TSP	Within 90 days
Negotiate and Execute Standard Generation Interconnection Agreement 
(SGIA) (following acceptance of FIS)	IE and TSP	180 days
APPENDIX J:  FIS Review Checklist – dated 8/3/2020
INR # and Name	
Reviewing Engineer	
Studies Reviewed	Steady State                    Short Circuit                    Facilities
Draft / Final
Date Received	
10-day Review period ends	
Is this a restudy?	
Steady State Study
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
INR # and project name included in the report? 	 These should match RIOO	Y/N
COD matches RIOO-IS and RARF?	Verify the COD and request update from IE/TSP	Y/N
POI matches RIOO-IS?	Some TSPs will study a second POI.	Y/N
Correct size of proposed project?	The MW values in RIOO-IS, RARF and Steady State report should match. 	Y/N
Charging case studied?	Applicable if there is a storage facility.	Y/N
Correct cases considered?	The Steady State study uses the SSWG cases.
SUM case should correspond to the summer season after COD (i.e. same year if prior to June 1 and following year if on or after June 1).
HWLL case should be studied for projects in areas with high wind penetration. The screening study is a good source for which cases to use.	Y/N
If no, explain.
Generators meeting PG 6.9(1)		Y/N
List of generators added to / excluded from the cases, and explanation for those additions / exclusions is included?		Y/N
Nearby units dispatched at high output?		Y/N
Future transmission upgrades in the area of the project included in cases?	In some cases it may be reasonable to do the studies both with and without a transmission upgrade due to timing uncertainty.	Y/N
P1 – P7 contingencies run in the vicinity?	Contingencies for neighboring TSPs may need to be considered.
P2, P4, and P5 contingencies can be duplicates in steady state. If the TSP does not run all contingencies in these types they should explain why in the report.	Y/N
If no, explain.
Short Circuit Study
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
INR # and project name included in the report?	These should match RIOO	Y/N
COD matches RIOO- IS and RARF?	Verify the COD and request update from IE or TSP	Y/N
POI matches RIOO-IS?	Some TSPs will study a second POI.	Y/N
Model listed? 	Manufacturer, model and rating of the WTG/Inverter/ conventional generator. This should match the model in the RARF.	Y/N
Correct cases considered?	The Short Circuit Study uses the SPWG cases.
Case should correspond to the summer season after COD (i.e. same year if prior to June 1 and following year if after June 1).	Y/N
If no, explain.
Circuit Breaker Rating included in the report?	The breaker interrupting capacity/rating should be higher than the short circuit current.	Y/N
Faults and impedances look reasonable?		Y/N
If no, explain.
Study indicates whether existing transmission equipment is adequate?		Y/N
Facilities Study
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
INR # and project name included in the report?	These should match RIOO	Y/N
COD matches RIOO- IS and RARF?	Verify the COD and request update from IE or TSP	Y/N
POI matches RIOO-IS?	Some TSPs will study a second POI.	Y/N
Simple oneline or map showing project’s POI?		Y/N
Cost over $25,000,000?	If so, an economic study is required. Notify RPG@ercot.com 
Y/N
Economic Study Required field in RIOO	Indicate in the Project Details section of INR under Other Studies> Economic Study Required> Yes/No	Y/N
Stability Study
RI Engineer high-level review
RI Engineer		Comments
Project size. These should match.    	Stability Study		
	RARF		
	RIOO-IS		
COD	Stability Study		
	RARF		
	RIOO-IS		
Study case	SUM		
	HWLL		
Inverter / WT Model	RARF		
	Stability Study		
POIB 	RIOO		
	Stability Study		
Check generation additions and statements about dispatch changes. 	☐
Check if P1-P7 contingencies were run. If not, check for statements explaining why some were omitted. 	☐
Check if Protected Information (e.g. events or contingencies causing instabilities, dynamic data) is redacted from the redacted version of the stability report.	☐
Check if dynamic data sets included for any cases studied.
1.	Power flow case:             .raw or .sav
2.	Dynamic case/data:        .snp and .dyr	☐
Dynamics Review
Dynamics Engineer	
If Report submitted as Draft, Key Checking List
(DRAFT Results/Report CANNOT be shared with IE)	Clearly identify NERC P1 thru P7 contingencies?	
	Contingency List sufficient for study area?  No important contingencies missing or rationale provided for any contingency types not studied?	
	Study Criteria?	
	Study Assumptions?	
	Nearby generation dispatched at full output and listed in report or rationale provided for generation dispatch scenario that was studied?
-Is there a separate table for new generation that meets PG 6.9 in the study report based on the cutoff date?	
	Report lists .dyr parameters of unit?	
	Is the POI near/in any established GTC?
-If yes, are the critical contingencies studied in the FIS study?	
	Model type used in FIS aligns with model submitted in RARF?	
	Model Quality Test report provided in RARF and shows acceptable performance per DWG Procedure Manual section 3.1.5? Model quality test required if RIOO “FIS Requested” date after: 5/1/2020	
	Dynamic load models used if interconnect at a large load center?	
	Stability Issue Identified?  Is a curtailment level or other mitigation identified? 	
	Is this an update on the Final report posted in the MIS per PG 5.3.2.4.3 (6)? 
-	What is the recommended mitigation to address instability issue? 
o	Any solution related to change in Generation Resource (e.g. Tuning, Parameter update, other model)?
o	Any Transmission solution?
o	Did the report say solution is feasible and can be implement before In-Sync?	
IRR Generators	HVRT and LVRT*: Check 0.95 pf lead/lag
*0.95 pf lead/lag initial condition required for LVRT if RIOO “FIS Requested” date after: 7/30/2020	
	HVRT performed as one simulation (instead of piece-wise)	
	HVRT and LVRT: Real and reactive power plotted at POIB?  Performance per DWG Procedure Manual section 3.1.5?	
Post Review Checklist
Item	Complete?
Place a copy of the study in the appropriate project folder.	Y/N
If the study is approved and considered final, post the study to MIS Secure	Y/N
Once the final report is posted to MIS, update the approval date in RIOO-IS	Y/N
Send emails to IE and TSP saying the reports are posted to MIS	Y/N
APPENDIX K:  Small Gen Review Checklist – Dated 1/22/2022:
INR # and Name	
Reviewing Engineer	
Date Received	
10-day Review period ends	
Small Generation Interconnection Request Application and Approval to Submit Model Information Checklist

Small Gen (Interconnection Application Only):
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
Make sure Name is not taken (Check RIOO-IS and the Planning Data Dictionary).		Y/N
Make sure MWs, Dates, and Voltages Levels look reasonable (Cross-check).		Y/N
Verify Load/Load Transformer for connections (Analogous to POI/POIB).		Y/N
Lone Star Infrastructure Protection Act (LSIPA) Attestation (It is required for the initial submission, send IE the link so they download it).		Y/N
Verify One-Line has necessary information, and that the Load/Load Transformer is shown in the One-Line.		Y/N
Verify Payment, and put the payment information in RIOO-IS.
1.	 ACH - Authorize.net
2.	 WIRE – Treasury to verify:  treasury@ercot.com
Note: RIOO-IS is the payment method of Small Gen Applications.	Y/N
Verify DOD/Entity sheet is included in INR application		Y/N
Assign a TDSP based on Planning Data Dictionary		Y/N
Check LSIPA check box, fee amount and fee paid along with putting the appropriate date fields		Y/N
Assign a supervisor for both Planning and RI Engineers		Y/N
Small Gen Approval To Submit Model Information Checklist (Planning Guide Section 5.4.3):
INR # and Name	
Reviewing Engineer	
Date Received	
10-day Review period ends	
Provided by IE/RE or TDSP (Depending on Item):
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
Approved Interconnection Application		Y/N
Notification that all required studies (System Impact Study) are completed and approved by ERCOT.
DSP conducted studies to confirm that DSP’s system will not preclude compliance with ERCOT requirements
DSP conducted studies to identify DGR limitations		Y/N
Fully executed Interconnection Agreement:
Whether any operational limitations exist and description of limitations (if applicable) that will affect generator’s operation	Operational limitations include (but are not limited to) ramping limitations, maximum output limitation, or maximum charging limitation	Y/N
Confirmation that IE has provided Notice to Proceed and Financial Security to fund distribution system upgrades	Security should be sufficient to fund distribution system upgrades identified by the TDSP	Y/N
Timeline for system upgrades required to interconnect the project	(If applicable)	Y/N
Operational limitations of the project and the details of those operational limitations prior to interconnection	(If applicable)	Y/N
System Impact Studies (Operating Guide Section 2.9 [VRT], Operating Guide Section 2.6 [FRT] Planning Guide Section 5.4.2(1)(b))
	Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
Small Gen	DSP conducted studies to confirm that DSP’s system will not preclude compliance with ERCOT requirements	Requirements include
1)	Voltage ride-through (VRT)
2)	Under-frequency and over-frequency relaying, and
3)	Primary frequency response (PFR)	Y/N
	DSP conducted studies to identify DGR limitations	Limitations include
1)	Min / max MW discharge
2)	Min / max MW charge (if applicable), and
3)	Ramp rates limits	Y/N
•	DGRs utilizing synchronous generation must have over-/under-voltage relays set to ride through the following operating conditions:
Voltage (p.u. of nominal)	Minimum Ride-Through Time
(seconds)
0.88 < V < 1.10	continuous
0.70 < V < 0.88	Linear slope of 4 s/1 p.u. voltage starting at 0.7 s @ 0.7 p.u.
•	DGRs and DESRs utilizing inverter-based generation must be designed and relays must be set to ride through the following operating conditions:
Voltage               (p.u. of nominal)	Ride-Through Mode	Minimum Ride-Through Time
(seconds)
1.10 < V < 1.20	Momentary Cessation	12
0.88 < V < 1.10	Continuous Operation	continuous
0.70 < V < 0.88	Mandatory Operation	20
0.50 < V < 0.70	Mandatory Operation	10
V < 0.50	Momentary Cessation	1
Modeling (Protocol Section 3.10.7.2(3))
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
Valid Load Transformer information from the TDSP?	This is the Load Transformer that the TDSP will model in NMMS.	Y/N
Operational Limitations and Telemetry (P.G. 5.4)
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
Confirmation from DSP that all known distribution system operational limitations have been disclosed to RE	Limitations may include DSP-imposed limits on the rate or magnitude of injection or withdrawal	Y/N
All operational limitations are reflected in RARF		Y/N
Confirmation from RE that all limits are reflected in ERCOT model and/or telemetry		Y/N
Frequency Relaying (Operating Guide Section 2.6.2.1)
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
Written agreement between RE and DSP confirming ERCOT frequency relaying requirements will operate and take precedence	Frequency              (Hz)	Ride-Through Mode	Minimum Ride-through Time
(seconds)
f > 61.8	No ride-through requirements
61.2 < f ≤ 61.8	Mandatory Operation	299
58.8 ≤ f ≤ 61.2	Continuous Operation	continuous
57.0 ≤ f < 58.8	Mandatory Operation	299
f < 57.0	No ride-through requirements
Load Shed (Protocol Section 3.8.6)
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
DSP confirmation that DGR is not connected to load-shed circuit	Line cannot be subject to…
-	manual or automatic disconnection…
-	by DSP, TSP, or TO…
-	as part of any under-frequency, under-voltage, or manual load shed scheme
Outage Scheduling (Protocol Section 3.1.6.13)
Criteria	Notes	Evaluation
DSP confirmation that DSP will notify RE or QSE of outages	Relevant outages include any planned or forced outage of any distribution facility controlled by DSP that impacts, or that foreseeably could impact, the operation of the DGR.  This could be spelled out in the IA.	Y/N
APPENDIX L:  Template for RE’s Wanting to Submit Model Information
Template to Submit Model Information:	For Informational Purposes Only				
What Needs to be Ready for a Submission?	Owner	Comment	In RIOO (Y/N)?	IA Exhibit #	IA Page?	System Impact Study	Study Page?
Small Gen Process per Planning Guide	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
ERCOT RIOO Fee Paid	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Load/Load Transformer and Station name with TDSP	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
RIOO Gen/DOD forms	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
LSIPA Form	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Clear One-line with load/transformer information and station name	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Affidavit for Conditions of Acceptance [P.G. 5.4.2 (1)] - or Approval to Submit Model Information (RARF) [P.G. 5.4.3]	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
RIOO Application complete and in Planned Status	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Confirmation of TDSP System Impact Studies and approvals	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Full technology data sheet and specs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Resource Registration data (Initial RARF)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Fully Executed and Funded IA	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Any operational limitations from TDSP (Unity Power Factor Requirement, rates, ETC)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
VRT Performance	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
FRT Performance	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
TDSP modeling, if required	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
TDSP confirmation that IE has funded distribution system upgrades and a timeline for those upgrades	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Confirmation of non-load shed UF circuit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
Confirmation of Outage Scheduler							
Full RARF Package with All Attachments per Glossary	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
EPS Metering design proposal in and approved	 	 	 	 	 	 	 
APPENDIX M:  REVISIONS
Revision  	 Comments  	Date   	Author
0.1	Original Document Draft	10/12/2012	Al Garcia
0.2	Editing and reduction of scope	10/24/2012	John Adams
0.3	Editing and Addition of Description of Changes/Table of Contents	10/29/2012	W. Rickerson
0.4	Replacing details of each process with checklist in appendix and other edits	11/1/2012	John Adams
0.5	Editing, make Figure 2 and 3 consistent with Planning Guide, changes to Appendices G and H, updated TOC	11/6/2012	Paul Tan
0.6	Editing for simplicity & clarity	11/13/2012	Eric Adams/John Adams
0.7	Incorporate comments Art Deller, Bill Blevins,	11/26/2012	Art Deller, Bill Blevins, John Adams
0.8	Incorporate comments Patrick Coon, Ed Geer, Art Deller	11/30/2012	Ed Geer, Art Deller, Patrick Coon
0.9	Editing and cleanup – initial draft	11/30/2012	Woody Rickerson
1.0	Add planning model requirements, commercial operation requirements, corrections & Initial Issue	12/20/2012	John Adams
1.1	Clarify SCADA Point plan, Generation checkout, and fate of projects if FIS scope not agreed to within 60 days.	12/28/2012	John Adams
1.2	Incorporate recommendations of QMWG to clarify
	3/29/2013	John Adams
1.3	Update language to Incorporate ERCOT and Market Participant comments pertaining to the Resource Interconnection, Modeling, and Operations processes.	12/12/2014	Isabel Flores, Art Deller, Bill Blevins, Chad Thompson, Ed Geer, Ted Hailu, Patrick Coon
1.4	Updated language to change references to “Commercial Operations Date” to “Resource Commissioning Date” as per NPRR 705 (Provides Consistency for references to the End Date of the Generation Interconnection Process)	02/01/2016	Ted Hailu, Chad Thompson
1.5	Updated to include information about the Quarterly Stability Assessment	01/15/2018	Jay Teixeira
1.6	Handbook revised and updated	07/16/2018
	Dennis Caufield
1.7	Post Dennis Caufield revisions – formatting mostly	09/15/2018	Jay Teixeira
1.8	Post formatting – footer, cover page, begin content change for RIOO-IS	10/15/2018	Jay Teixeira
1.91	Updated to include GIM (GINR) Timelines, Curtailment test, FIS Review Checklist and various small edits.	01/8/2021	Jay Teixeira
1.92	Updated Planning Guide references, revised Curtailment test process, added Outage Scheduler submission requirements, added descriptions of the Small Gen process, links and other clarifications and edits.	02/15/2022	Jay Teixeira, Ed Geer, Zach Reich, Leo Villanueva
1.94	Update from ERCOT Operations and updates to replace the term “RARF” with “resource data” and changes to RIOO screens and other various small updates.	03/01/2023	 Jay Teixeira, Mary Vu
APPENDIX N:  Resource Status Codes (ICCP Handbook 2020)
Resource Category	Status Code	Status Acronym	Status Description
Generation Resource	000	n/a	Resource status has not been defined.
	001	ONRUC	On-Line and the hour is a RUC-Committed Interval

	002	ONREG	On-Line Resource with Energy Offer Curve providing Regulation Service
	003	ON	On-Line Resource with Energy Offer Curve
	004	ONDSR	On-Line Dynamically Scheduled Resource
	005	ONOS	On-Line Resource with Output Schedule
	006	ONOSREG	On-Line Resource with Output Schedule providing Regulation Service
	007	ONDSRREG	On-Line Dynamically Scheduled Resource providing Regulation Service
	008	ONTEST	On-Line Test with Output Schedule
	009	ONEMR	On-Line EMR (available for commitment or dispatch only for ERCOT-declared Emergency Conditions; the QSE may appropriately set LSL and HSL to reflect operating limits
	010	ONRR	On-Line as a synchronous condenser (hydro) providing Responsive Reserve but unavailable for dispatch by SCED and available for commitment by RUC
	011	OUT	Off-Line and unavailable
	012	OFFNS	Off -Line but reserved for Non-Spin
	013	OFF 	Off-Line but available for commitment by DAM and RUC
	014	EMR	Available for commitment only for ERCOT-declared Emergency Condition events; the QSE may appropriately set LSL and HSL to reflect operating limits
	015	SHUTDOWN	The Resource is On-Line and in a shutdown sequence, and has no Ancillary Service Obligations.  This Resource status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes
	016	STARTUP	The Resource is On-Line and in a startup sequence and has no Ancillary Service Obligations.  This Resource status is only to be used for Real-Time telemetry purposes
	017	FRRSUP	On-Line Resource with FRRS-UP obligation
	018	ONOPTOUT	On-Line hour is a RUC Buy-Back hour
	019	OFFQS	Offline – QSGR available for SCED development
	020	EMRSWGR	Offline – Switchable Generation Resource (SWGR) operating in a non-ERCOT Control Area, available for ERCOT control under Emergency conditions
	021	ONFFRRRS	On-Line Available for FFR
 Load Resource	256	n/a	Resource status has not been defined
	257	ONRGL	Available for dispatch of Regulation Service by LFC and for any remaining dispatchable capacity by SCED with an RTM Energy Bid
	258	ONCLR	Available for dispatch of a Controllable Load Resource by SCED with an RTM Energy Bid
	259	ONRL	Available for dispatch of Responsive Reserve Service, excluding Controllable Load Resources
	260	OUTL	Not available
	261	FRRSDN	On-Line Controllable Load  Resource with FRRS-Down obligation
	262	FRRSUP	On-Line Controllable Load  Resource with FRRS-Up obligation
	263	ONFFRRRSL	Available for FFR Excluding Controllable Load Resources


Quarterly Stability Assessment (QSA) Checklist 
In accordance with Planning Guide Section 5.3.5(4), QSA prerequisites listed below must be met for the large generator to be included in the QSA assessment per the table in Planning Guide 5.3.5(2).  
Deadlines for QSA submission
Planning Guide 5.3.5 (2):  Last day for IE to meet prerequisites as listed in paragraph (4)	45-Day Deadline
Prior August 1	June 17
Prior November 1	September 17
Prior February 1	December 18
Prior May 1	March 17

All links referenced below can be found on the Resource Integration website.
Completed 45-day requirement and Final QSA requirement checklist must be submitted in RIOO-IS prior to their respective deadlines.   
45-Day Requirement	File Name	Date 
Submitted	Status
Completed and approved FIS			Approved

Steady state study			Approved

Short circuit study			Approved

Dynamics study			Approved

Facilities study			Approved

Dynamic Models (PSSE & PSCAD) *4
			Approved

PSSE Model			☒

PSSE Model Quality Test			☒

PSCAD Model (psc or .pscx files are accepted)			☒

PSCAD Model Template			☒

PSCAD Model Quality Test			☒

PSCAD Unit Model Validation Report			☒

TSAT Dynamic Data for UDM*4
			Approved

TSAT Dynamic Model Quality Test			☒

45 Day Requirement 








Final QSA Requirements

QSA Requirements	File Name	Date Submitted	Status
Completed and approved FIS			Approved

Steady state study			Approved

Short circuit study			Approved

Dynamics study			Approved

Facilities study			Approved

Completed and approved reactive study*1

			Approved

Signed SGIA*2

			☒

Financial commitment			☒

Notice to Proceed			☒

Financial Security (upon implementation of PGRR088)			☒

RIOO-Create substation details "Planning" commitment level complete? *3



			☒

Dynamic Models (PSSE & PSCAD) *4
			Approved

PSSE Models			☒

PSSE Model Quality Test			☒

PSCAD Model (psc or .pscx files are accepted)			☒

PSCAD Model Template			☒

PSCAD Model Quality Test			☒

PSCAD Unit Model Validation Report			☒

TSAT Dynamic Data for UDM*4
			Approved

TSAT Dynamic Model Quality Test			☒

Collector System Model			Approved

Collector System Model [(.raw + .seq) OR .OLR files are accepted]			☒

Collector System Template
(https://www.ercot.com/files/docs/2020/06/30/Collector_System_Template.zip)
			☒

Air permit from TCEQ (if required) *5			Submitted 

Greenhouse Gas (if required) *5			Submitted
Declaration of water adequacy (if not IRR)			Approved


QSA References:
1.	Reactive study: The requirements for Reactive Study are detailed in the Reactive Study Scope.
2.	Standard Interconnection Agreement (SGIA): The SGIA must be signed, executed and submitted in RIOO-IS for the project to meet Planning Guide 6.9.  The model and rating should match the Resource Registration Data and FIS studies. If there are modifications to the original SGIA and the SGIA cannot be amended by the QSA deadline then the TSP needs to confirm in writing that the SGIA will be executed shortly after QSA.
3.	RIOO-IS Planning Level Data: Refer to Entering Resource Registration Data in RIOO-IS for guidance on how to enter Recourse Registration data in RIOO-IS
4.	Dynamic Models:  Refer to Model Quality Guide, DWG Procedure Manual and Dynamic Model Template to assist with stability model submission requirements per Planning Guides Section 6.2. 
•	Conventional and Combined Cycle Resources can EITHER provide the SUBSYNC mass and spring constant data in the RARF OR the PSCAD model plus checklist and MQT Report.
5.	Air Permit and Greenhouse gas should be confirmed in RIOO-IS.
6.	Additional Guides:
•	Managing Your INR as an IE/RE in RIOO-IS
•	Resource Registration Glossary
 


















Reactive Study Scope v10
April 13, 2020 
Table of Contents
1.	Purposes of the Reactive Study	2
2.	Which resources have to do a reactive study?	2
3.	Acronyms and Definitions	2
4.	Required Documentation	2
5.	Operating Points to study (see Figure 1)	3
6.	General Description of the Study	3
7.	Examples of More Complicated Studies Involving Multiple Resources at the Same POI	4
8.	Tricky Exceptions to the Standard Requirements (Repowering Projects for Older Resources)	5
9.	References	5
10.	Illustrations:  Figure 1 Reactive requirements at POI per 100 MW, Table 1 Reactive Device Inventory, and Table 2 Study Results	6
Figure 1:  Reactive requirements at POI per 100 MW	7
Table 1:  Reactive Device Inventory	8
Table 2:  Study Results	10


 
1.	Purposes of the Reactive Study
a.	Show the entire reactive capability of the resource or resources
b.	Show the plant design will be able to meet Voltage Support Services required for the range of anticipated operating conditions
c.	Note:  Although a passing reactive study is a requirement for Initial Synchronization, a passing reactive study does not guarantee that a plant will meet protocol requirements once in operation.  Thoughtful, coordinated design of plant reactive controls is paramount.  It is up to the plant designers and operators to make sufficient allowance and margin for real-world operating conditions; designing plants that barely meet standards on paper is risky and not recommended.

2.	Which resources have to do a reactive study?
a.	All resources going through the Generation Resource Interconnection or Change Request process including those smaller than 20 MVA that are not required to provide Voltage Support Services
b.	ERCOT staff may waive this requirement for some repower projects if the reactive study has been successfully completed in the past and is well-documented and not expected to change.  (Send request to Resource Integration engineer assigned to the project.)

3.	Acronyms and Definitions
a.	IA = Interconnection Agreement
b.	ESR = Energy Storage Resource
c.	HSL = High Sustainable Limit of a generation resource
d.	IRR = Intermittent Renewable Resource, a Generation Resource that can only produce energy from variable, uncontrollable Resources, such as wind, solar, or run-of-the-river hydroelectricity
e.	LSL = Low Sustainable Limit of a generation or energy storage resource
f.	Low Output Point (LOP)= LSL for conventional generators;  10% of maximum real power output for IRRs;  LSL (maximum charging) for ESRs
g.	MPT = Main Power Transformer
h.	P = real power output of a generation resource
i.	POI = Point Of Interconnection
j.	Q = reactive output or consumption of a generation resource
k.	RARF = Resource Asset Registration Forms
l.	RIOO = Resource Integration Ongoing Operations
m.	STATCOM = Static Synchronous Compensator
n.	SVC = Static Var Compensator
o.	VSS = voltage support services

4.	Required Documentation
a.	Description of resource that matches RARF, RIOO, and the IA
b.	Description of the resource connection to ERCOT, including at least:
i.	POI bus name, nominal voltage
ii.	Length, voltage, and conductor of gen-tie, if any
iii.	Size and impedance of MPT 
iv.	Description of MPT load tap changer (LTC) if any, including which side is controlled, and how quickly (seconds) it can change positions
c.	Manufacturer’s real versus reactive power curve (also known as “D-curve” or “PQ curve”)
d.	Manufacturer’s reactive power versus terminal voltage curve (“QV curve”)
e.	Table 1 (shown below) – Reactive Device Inventory
f.	Table 2 (shown below) – Study Results

5.	Operating Points to study (see Figure 1)
a.	POI voltage = 0.95 per unit, reactive power = maximum supplying (lagging)
i.	HSL 
ii.	LOP
b.	POI voltage = 1.0 per unit, reactive power = maximum absorbing (leading)
i.	HSL 
ii.	LOP
c.	POI voltage = 1.04 per unit, reactive power = maximum supplying (lagging)
i.	HSL 
ii.	LOP 
d.	POI voltage = 1.05 per unit, reactive power = maximum absorbing (leading)
i.	HSL 
ii.	LOP
e.	Note 1:  these four operating points are the extreme corners of Figure 1 below and they are required even if a different POI Voltage Profile has been provided.

6.	General Description of the Study
a.	Check #1, Dynamic Reactive Capability (Gross)
i.	Use the PQ curve for V = 1.0 pu from the manufacturer:  draw one line at P = HSL and another at the LOP.  Multiply the results by the number of turbines or inverters of this type.  Repeat for each type of inverter or turbine and sum.
ii.	The resulting Q ranges in Mvar should be no less than +/- 0.329*Pmax in MW, where Pmax is the maximum net real power deliverable to the POI.  If either Q range is too small, the resource will need dynamic reactive support, such as a STATCOM or SVC.
iii.	If the equipment is sensitive to ambient temperature, use the PQ curve for max design ambient temperature.  Design ambient temperature should be no less than 35C.
iv.	Fill out the Reactive Device Inventory (Table 1).
v.	The resulting Q range should not be artificially limited but should reflect the actual equipment capability.
b.	Check #2, Reactive Performance at POI (Net)
i.	Use a steady-state loadflow program.  Model a slack bus with one extremely big generator and matching load at the same bus.  The TSP will provide a preliminary short circuit capability of the POI (PGRR076, approval pending).  Use this generator to set the POI voltage.  Model the transmission line gen-tie, if any, from the slack bus to the high-side of the MPT.  Model the MPT.  Model the entire collector system including each cable segment and all the transformers and all turbines or inverters.  Model all switched capacitor banks and reactors.  If a STATCOM or SVC will be part of the resource, then model it.
ii.	Note 1:  The model should be detailed down to whatever voltage level is represented by the PQ and QV curves.  For wind turbines this may be 690 volts, but for photovoltaic solar resources this may be 34.5kV at the individual skid.  The model may include auxiliary or station service loads if they are known but this is not required.  If loads are modeled this should be noted in the resource interconnection description.
iii.	Use the slack bus generator to set Vpoi to 0.95 per unit, adjust the MPT LTC and other variables to maximize the Mvar provided to the POI.  Check individual terminal voltages.  If any terminal voltage is outside the permissible operating range then this iteration must be excluded.  Adjust variables again (MPT tap, capbank, reactor, transformer taps, generator Vsched, etc) until an iteration is found with maximum Mvars supplied to POI (lagging) while all generator terminal voltages are within range.  Record this in the Study Results Table (Table 2).
iv.	Note 2:  The resulting Q values should not be limited by anything other than the voltage operating limits at the generator or inverter terminals but should reflect the actual equipment capability.
v.	Repeat for Vpoi = 1.0 per unit and maximize Mvar absorbed from the POI (leading).
vi.	Repeat for Vpoi = 1.04 per unit and maximize Mvar supplied to POI (lagging).
vii.	Repeat for Vpoi = 1.05 per unit and maximize Mvar absorbed from the POI (leading).
viii.	These four points are shown as the outside corners of Figure 1 below and are required for ERCOT.  The engineer doing the study may wish to evaluate and document other operating conditions for other reasons, including calculations that will be used to complete the RARF or to consider a known Voltage Profile.

7.	Examples of More Complicated Studies Involving Multiple Resources at the Same POI
a.	Resources which have different reactive requirements (See next section “Tricky Exceptions”) – Must be evaluated independently
b.	Resources which have same reactive requirements but different operating regimes.  For example, if one resource is solar and the other is storage, it is expected that the storage may operate in generation mode at night while the solar is not generating.  Evaluate the resources independently.
c.	Resources which have same reactive requirements and similar operating regimes, such as multiple types of wind turbines on separate feeders within the same project – the resources may be evaluated jointly or independently.
d.	Resources have same reactive requirements and similar operating regimes, such as multiple types of wind turbines but are on the same feeders – the resources should be evaluated jointly.
e.	Combined-cycle steam turbine – If GTs are sister units, a single reactive evaluation for one unit plus a second reactive evaluation for min(GT + steamer) and for max(GTs + steamer) is best.  If the GTs are not sister units then each will need its own reactive evaluation plus the min(GT + steamer) and the max(GTs + steamer) evaluations.

8.	Tricky Exceptions to the Standard Requirements (Repowering Projects for Older Resources)
a.	The 2010 Voltage Profile is posted at http://www.ercot.com/gridinfo/generation/voltprof/ as “Voltage_Profiles_Summer-Fall2010_051010.xls”
b.	The established reactive capability curve of existing resources is available to the owners in NDCRC and in the RARF.
c.	Nodal Protocols 3.15 (8), conventional generators online before 9-1-1999 whose designs do not meet the standard requirements
i.	Owner must provide documentation of initial reactive capability and this should generally agree with the most recent reactive tests
ii.	No decrease of reactive capability is permitted
d.	Nodal protocols 3.15 (8) and (9), wind resources online before 2-17-2004 or online before 5-17-2005 and designed before 2-17-2004 (approx. 18 resources) whose designs do not meet the standard requirements
i.	Owner must provide documentation of initial reactive capability
ii.	No decrease of reactive capability is permitted
iii.	If the most recent reactive tests indicates that the documentation of initial reactive capability was overstated, then the owner shall make up the deficit as part of the repower project.
e.	Nodal Protocols 3.15 (7) (b), Wind Generation Resources online after 2-17-2004 and IA signed before 12-1-2009 with design capable of meeting standard reactive requirement
i.	Reactive capability requirement is +/- 0.95 power factor of maximum real power output, the “rectangle.”
ii.	Reactive capability requirement applies to the 2010 Voltage Profile
iii.	No decrease of reactive capability is permitted.
f.	Nodal Protocols 3.15 (7) (a), Wind Generation Resources online after 2-17-2004 and IA signed before 12-1-2009 with design not capable of meeting standard reactive requirement
i.	Reactive capability requirement is +/- 0.95 power factor of current real power output, the “triangle.”
ii.	Reactive capability requirement applies to the 2010 Voltage Profile
iii.	No decrease of reactive capability is permitted.
g.	For repower projects that will result in reduced real power output, the previous reactive capability curve should be truncated at the new maximum real power output but not otherwise reduced. 

9.	References
a.	Planning Guide 5.7.1(4)(d)(iii) and 5.9(4)(c)(ii)
b.	Nodal Protocols 3.15 
c.	Operating Guide 2.7 plus NOGRR195

10.	Illustrations:  Figure 1 Reactive requirements at POI per 100 MW, Table 1 Reactive Device Inventory, and Table 2 Study Results 
Figure 1:  Reactive requirements at POI per 100 MW
 

Notes for Figure 1:
1.	The solid lines are the minimum reactive capability requirement per 100 MW.
2.	The dotted lines are the total reactive capability of the resource.
3.	The reactive study should demonstrate both the total reactive capability of the resource with no artificial restrictions, and compliance with the minimum requirement. 
Table 1:  Reactive Device Inventory
Please include the below template in the study report:
•	Generation Resource High Sustained Limit, net power deliverable to POI: _________ MW.
•	Generation Resource LOP net power deliverable to POI: _________ MW.  
•	Required VAR capability @ POI, calculated as 32.9% of HSL: ± ______MVAr.
•	Inventory total gross reactive capability (nominal, @ device terminals, excluding losses):
1.	Generating Units (LOP):			_______ MVAr lag / _______ MVAr lead
2.	Generating Units (HSL):			_______ MVAr lag / _______ MVAr lead
3.	Switchable Shunts:			_______ MVAr lag / _______ MVAr lead
4.	Auxiliary Dynamic Devices (SVC, STATCOM) :	_______ MVAr lag / _______ MVAr lead
5.	Grand Total (add #2, 3, 4):			_______ MVAr lag / _______ MVAr lead
6.	Total Dynamic at low output point (add #1, 4): 	_______ MVAr lag / _______ MVAr lead
7.	Total Dynamic at HSL (add #2, 4): 			_______ MVAr lag / _______ MVAr lead
•	Reminders:  
o	The resource shall have Automatic Voltage Regulation
o	The AVR is required to be in automatic voltage control mode controlling the dynamic reactive output and switching static reactive devices  
o	No alternative control schemes are permitted
o	The resource must be capable of maintaining a voltage setpoint at the POI
•	What is the estimated response time of the shunts to a low voltage? ______ seconds
•	Paste manufacturer charts showing:
o	Reactive capability versus real power output (“PQ chart”, or “D-curve”).
o	Reactive capability versus terminal voltage (“QV chart” or family of D-curves).
•	List acceptable steady-state voltage ratings:
o	Generating units: _______volts low / _______ volts high
•	Notes about Droop and Deadband: 
o	Deadband is the % voltage set-point error range which causes no reactive output
o	Droop is defined as additional % voltage set-point error (after deadband) causing 100% reactive power dispatch
o	Voltage droop + deadband should be small enough to keep the POI within the tolerance band in the table from NOGRR195 (approval pending):
POI Voltage	Tolerance Band KV
345	+/- 4kV
230	+/- 3kV
138	+/- 2kV
115	+/- 2kV
69	+/- 1kV
•	Notes about switchable shunt timing.  Unless doing so would lead to instability or oscillation, the following guidelines are recommended for controlling shunt reactive devices:
o	Static reactive devices that are used to meet VSS requirements should be able to switch quickly as part of the AVR system.
o	The AVR system should be configured to control shunt devices with the aim of preserving dynamic capability of the unit(s).
o	Shunt devices should not wait for the units’ reactive capability to be exhausted before switching.
o	The first shunt device is expected to switch in less than a minute after an AVR set-point change or voltage event that would require the device to provide reactive power. Subsequent shunt devices can wait up to a minute the since last device switched in before switching.  A reasonable lockout-timer (typically, 5 minutes) which prevents the devices from switching out is acceptable.


 
Table 2:  Study Results
This template shows the minimum data required to report the study results.  Rows and columns may be added to enable error-checking and to assist filling out the RARF.
POI Vol-tage	Dis-patch	Reactive Test	MW Real Power Delivered to POI	Mvar Reactive Power Delivered to POI	Shunts in Service
(+Mvar cap, or                  -Mvar react)	Total Mvars at all turbine or inverter terminals	Lowest voltage at turbine or inverter terminals, pu	Highest voltage at turbine or inverter terminals, pu
0.95 pu	HSL	Max Lagging		 +	 			
	LOP	Max Lagging		 +	 			
1.00 pu 	HSL	Max Leading		 –	 			
	LOP	Max Leading		 –	 			
1.04 pu 	HSL	Max Lagging		 +	 			
	LOP	Max Lagging		 +	 			
1.05 pu	HSL	Max Leading		 –	 			
	LOP	Max Leading		 –	 			

Notes:
•	A generator operating in lagging excitation injects reactive power similar to a capacitor.  A generator operating in leading excitation absorbs reactive power similar to a reactor.
•	Total Mvars at all turbine or inverter terminals is the straight summation of the reactive power delivered by each turbine, wind turbine, solar inverter, or ESR inverter.  (Purpose of this column is to allow ERCOT to estimate total losses and compare to size of installed switched shunts.)
•	The steady-state rating of any STATCOMs (and not the overload rating) should be used when computing reactive power deliverable to the POI.
•	It is okay to add a column to record the total reactive power delivered to the central low-side bus from all the generator feeders, excluding the output of all shunts and auxiliary dynamic devices.  This data is not used to evaluate the resource’s ability to meet ERCOT reactive standards but it will be helpful to whoever is responsible for filling out the Reactive tab of the RARF.
•	The purposes of the final two columns are  
o	To demonstrate that the solution does not put any equipment outside its allowable voltage range 
o	To give an idea how much the reactive capability of the final turbines or inverters had to be derated with respect to the QV curve
ERCOT User Defined Model Submittal Guideline

Please provide this Guideline to your manufacturer when requesting PSSE/TSAT dynamic stability model for your plant.  This information will help your manufacturer provide functional models.
1.	Introduction
To adequately simulate dynamic and transient events in the ERCOT System, it is necessary to establish and maintain dynamics data and simulation-ready study cases representing the dynamic capability and frequency characteristics of machines and equipment connected to the ERCOT System.  ERCOT Dynamics Working Group (DWG) uses the PSS/E and TSAT software programs.  Standard library models, including the so called “WECC Generic Models” are preferred provided the model accuracy is good, as these models are simpler to use and maintain.  Often, however, generators especially IRRs and batteries will require use of User-Defined Models (UDM).  UDM models utilize compiled model code provided by the manufacturer (.dll file) to expand the capability of the simulation program.  To improve compatibility, ERCOT requests that all UDM models adhere to these guidelines.
2.	UDM Guidance
Some UDMs lack features or have certain limitations that have been observed to create challenges in preparing DWG simulation-ready study cases and are often difficult or impossible to use in large scale grid studies.  The following list of items provides discussion and recommendations regarding UDM characteristics based on user experience.
•	Detailed Model Manual shall be provided:
The model manual should contain all the information needed to set up the dynamic model and understand its overall behavior.  In particular,
o	Manual should describe how the poweflow generator model should be set up, including values for Rsource, Xsource, MBase, Qmin, Qmax, and whether the model is considered a “Wind Machine” in PSSE.
o	Manual should list and describe the major tunable control parameters.
o	Manual should provide a high level control block diagram illustrating major control functions and how the tunable control parameters are utilized.
•	Inter-Model Communication:
o	Documentation should be included on how the model exchanges data (e.g., real and reactive power setpoint or other data exchange) with other downstream or upstream models. 
o	If submitting a site-specific model, this interfacing between specific upstream/downstream models should be verified, e.g., data exchange between power plant controller (PPC), wind turbine generator (WTG) and STATCOM user-defined models.
•	Parameter Error Checking: 
o	Error and warning messages should be provided to users as appropriate.
o	The model should be setup with correct parameter conditions such as min/max values if applicable to allow the software tool to catch and report on issues when running simulation.
•	Multiple Module Dependencies:
When multiple modular user-defined models are used to represent a plant, there is a possibility that the end user may exclude required modules (intentionally or unintentionally). Module dependencies should be verified when a UDM is developed, and an error thrown when dependencies are not present. Failure to perform this dependency/error handling has the potential to cause the simulation software to crash.
•	Multiple Instances:
In one ERCOT case, a given user defined model file (.dll or .tudm) may be used at different sites. The UDM should be verified to operate properly in this situation.
•	Access of External Files:
o	With default parameters, the UDM code should not write to files.
o	Error messages should be sent using the appropriate APIs. Diagnostic messages should also be suppressed with default model parameters. 
o	Accessing/reading from a file is OK, but note that other instances of model may be accessing at the same time.
•	Operating Points:
o	Model should be simulated, and behavior validated at a variety of operating points that are expected to be encountered in a powerflow. At minimum, all MQT tests should be performed at 100% dispatch and additional LVRT test should be performed at 50% and 10% dispatches.
•	Compatible TSAT model shall be provided:
o	The same UDM shall be supplied for TSAT software. Typically, this requires submitting compatible .dll and .tudm (template UDM) files.  
o	In addition to ERCOT’s general guideline for UDMs (applicable to both TSAT and PSS/E models), there are some guidelines specific to TSAT:
	Instantiation Compatibility: 
The UDM model for TSAT should be compatible with the PSS/E dyr file format, thus one should be able to use the same site-specific parameter list in both software platforms.
	Equipment Name Support and Validation:
The model should operate with dynamic data files in “bus number” format (similar to PSS/E) and in “equipment name” format. 
Equipment name format is specific to TSAT and allows a unique 32-character identified to be used for mapping dynamic (or other auxiliary data). 
UDM authors should also verify that model works with equipment names that include space characters. 
It should also be verified that the TSAT case operates equivalently in both bus-number and equipment name format by running equivalent test scenarios.
	Transfer Analysis: 
The model should be verified to operate as expected in a “transfer” scenario, that is, utilizing TSAT’s transfer analysis feature to automatically re-dispatch the unit other test (or other units in the system). Here, testing of all model functionality should be performed at multiple transfer “points”. 
Any model features which are intended to interact directly with TSAT generator (re)dispatch should be verified.
	Numerical Integration Methods:
Model should operate consistently when using different numerical integration methods, e.g., Modified Euler (ME), RK2, RK3, or RK4.
	Compatibility with Distributed Computation:
Model should be tested for compatibility with TSAT’s distributed computation feature, where multiple TSAT server instances are processing multiple scenarios which all utilize the UDM.
Model instructions should include details of which supporting files are required to be accessible by TSAT server instances, i.e., in addition to the DLL/TUDM.
	Model Quality Testing:
All ERCOT model-quality testing guidelines should be followed, testing the TSAT site-specific model in both equipment name and bus-number format. 
	Critical Clearing Time (CCT) – TSAT has a special mode of operation which allows for determination of the critical clearing time for a given contingency list.  As the execution sequence for CCT mode differs from basecase or transfer analysis, it is recommended that model authors ensure that this mode of operation does not cause issues with the developed user defined model by including a CCT scan as part of testing.
	Multi-Threaded capability – As of V23.0.0, TSAT has the capability to perform simulations using a multi-threaded process which can speed up simulation run-time considerably. At present, user-defined DLLs (DLBs) are restricted to a single thread so there are no additional considerations for DLB authors, however it is suggested that the model be tested with TSAT operating in both single- and multi-threaded mode to ensure compatibility with this feature.  In future, if support is expanded to allow vendor DLBs to operate across multiple threads, additional testing may be necessary.
	Small Signal Stability Analysis (SSAT) – The DSATools SSAT module makes use of linearized eigenvalue analysis to study power system oscillatory behavior. In order for a dynamic model to be incorporated in that analysis, a Jacobian matrix for that device must be defined. This can either be defined explicitly in a DLL (DLB), accounting for initial conditions and all modes of operation. As an alternative, a simplified variant of the model may be prepared in the DSATools UDM standard format, model benchmarked against non-linear time-domain model.
	Trapezoidal Integration – In order for trapezoidal integration to be used in a TSAT simulation, the Jacobian matrix (as noted with SSAT above) as well as dynamic step size support must be verified in the model (see above regarding variable time steps).
	Performance Impact Testing – TSAT is commonly used in operation applications (control center environments) where simulation performance is critical. In addition, TSAT-RTDS co-simulation and PMU data streaming (ePMU module) require simulations to run in real-time, and the ability to do so may be impacted by execution of user-defined models. Model developers are therefore recommended to verify and report any significant impact their model may have on simulation performance (and, if applicable, other factors which may impact ability to simulate in real-time), especially when a model may be instantiated many times in a given simulation (i.e., used across multiple plants).

•	Black-box model with limited control and model information:
Most UDM user manuals focus on how to incorporate model properly in the simulation tool.  Many features are described very briefly without detailed control block diagrams and design logic included in the document.  This basic information may allow a user to include the model in the study tool but is not sufficient to fully understand the response and perform further investigation for observed responses. 
•	Avoid Multiple library files and specific set up:
UDMs generally should avoid utilizing multiple linked library files or parameter files or a specific folder structure unless this method provides a clear benefit, such as providing greater fidelity in model response.
•	.DLL Files only:
For PSSE software, ERCOT no longer accepts models that require linking and/or compiling.  Thus ERCOT no longer accepts .OBJ and .LIB model files in PSSE.
•	Time Step Flexibility:
Models should be capable of running at a range of time steps commonly used in dynamic simulation (e.g. half cycle or lower).
•	Limited Number of Key Parameters and Settings:
Manufacturers should strive to limit the number of parameters to those that are typically tuned or adjusted.
•	Diagnostic Messaging:
The best UDMs provide informative messages during initialization to help debug issues.
•	Immune to numerical noise / transients:
During/after faults, bus frequency, which is a calculated value in PSSE, may be subject to numerical deviations.  Protection models should avoid using instantaneous protection (zero pickup time) and consider whether additional filtering and associated time delay is necessary.
•	Gracefully Handle Islanding:
Models should not crash when islanded but instead should trip.
•	Gracefully Handle GNETing or out-of-service:
The GNET function in PSSE is a useful debugging tool to discount certain plant dynamics.  Some UDMs also require removal of the dynamic model itself in order to GNET properly, which makes the debugging process cumbersome.
•	Good Memory Management:
UDMs require designated memory location to write the response.  Poor memory management can write to the memory address that is out of the bound of the allocated space by PSS/E and affect other models in the system.  
•	Protocol-Required Capability:
Except where otherwise allowed, all generating plants must have dynamic reactive power and automatic voltage regulation capability (NP 3.15 and NOG 2.2.5), Voltage Ride Through capability (NOG 2.9), and Frequency Response (NOG 2.2.7), among others.  This required capability should be reflected in provided models.
o	In addition, control strategies should consider the need to provide system support while coordinating with nearby resources.  Voltage regulation with droop capability and dynamic reactive capability during voltage ride through are examples of such response.
•	Fully Support PSS/E UDM Implementation:
Models should avoid requiring a specific unit ID to be utilized such as “1” or “W” or “G1”.  Models should avoid requiring Qmin and Qmax limits to be set artificially in power flow, such as Qmin=Qmax or Qmin=Qmax=0.

ERCOT PSCAD Model Submittal Guidelines

ERCOT requests you submit this completed checklist along with your PSCAD model.  Please include this completed sheet in the same zip file when submitting your PSCAD model to your RARF form or RIOO system.
1.	Introduction
PSCAD models are a specialized type of model used in Electromagnetic Transient (EMT) studies.  These models are more detailed than standard dynamic stability models (e.g. PSS/E models) and are necessary for modeling generators in weak grid studies and subsynchronous resonance studies, among others.
Not all PSCAD models are created equal.  Some are unreasonably difficult to use and some contain certain modeling approximations.  In order to provide better quality control, ERCOT with the help of the Dynamic Model Task Force created this check-sheet.  When submitting a PSCAD model to ERCOT, please fill out this check sheet and attach it along with your model (zip the files together).  This will facilitate ERCOT providing feedback, and ultimately reduce issues that may occur down the road.
It is expected that all PSCAD models adhere to these guidelines.  Any deviations should be documented and explained and will be subject to review.  This form should only be completed by an SME knowledgeable with the inner-workings of the PSCAD black-box model, usually this implies OEM staff
  PSCAD submission checklist:

	Include a Model Quality Test (MQT) report overlaying the PSCAD and PSS/E model response.  If utilizing a user-defined-model in PSS/E, then also include the TSAT model response in the overlay.
	PSCAD model inserted into the ERCOT PSCAD Template, available in the “Dynamic Model Templates” package posted at:  https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re
	Include this completed checksheet (check off the items in the below tables).
	Include the PSCAD model manual.
	Include PSCAD files and libraries compiled for both 32-bit and 64-bit Fortran compilers if possible.




The checklist below is applicable for models associated with the following facility (indicate project name and/or GINR# and/or ERCOT Site Code):




Contact for person completing this form:



2.	PSCAD Model Requirement
Model Accuracy Features
In order to be sufficiently accurate, the model provided for each facility shall:
Item	Description	Check
1	Represent the full detailed inner control loop of the power electronics. The model cannot use the same approximations classically used in transient stability modeling and should fully represent all fast inner controls, as implemented in the real equipment. 	
2	 Utilize actual hardware code in creating the PSCAD model *OR* validate the model by comparing the model to measured device response.  Validation should be performed for a standard set of disturbances AND include a small signal frequency sweep to confirm the subsynchronous behavior over 5 to 55 Hz.  (Beware that models assembled using standard blocks available in the PSCAD master library introduce unacceptable approximations).	
3	Incorporate a full IGBT representation (preferred) or use a voltage source interface that mimics IGBT switching.  Average source voltage-like models are acceptable if considered accurate for grid stability studies.  Average source models should contain directly connected back-diodes for numerical stability. 	
4	Represent plant level controllers as they are implemented in the real controls, such as automatic voltage regulation.  Model communication and other delays.	
5	Parameters requiring site-specific adjustment should be made user-accessible. For example, the plant level controller should provide access to regulation gains and droop settings.	
6	Represent all pertinent control features as they are implemented in the real controls (e.g. customized PLLs, ride-through controllers, etc.).  Incorporate expected site-specific adjustments and settings.	
7	Represent Subsynchronous Oscillation (SSO) mitigation and/or protection including the ability to enable and disable SSO mitigation/protection, if applicable.	
8	Represent shunt capacitor and reactor banks and any dynamic reactive devices.  The controls should be modeled if the equipment dynamically responds to a disturbance within 10 seconds.  It is recommended to include an initialization routine, even if the controls are not explicitly modeled, so that the capacitor and reactor banks will be at the correct initial operating position at the start of the simulation.  For example, if the plant controller would normally place all shunt capacitors in service for 100% dispatch in real power and no shunt capacitors in service for 50% dispatch in real power, then it is recommended that an initialization routine would include this same logic.	
9	Represent all pertinent electrical and mechanical configurations, such as filters and specialized transformers.  Mechanical features (such as gearboxes, pitch controllers, etc.) should be included in the model if they impact electrical performance.	
10	Have all pertinent protections modeled in detail. This includes various over-voltage and under-voltage protections (individual phase and RMS), frequency protections, DC bus voltage protections, overcurrent protection, and any other protection which can influence ride-through behavior.  Actual code is recommended to model these protection features.  Mechanical protections, such as thermal, should be modeled to extent may limit ride through capability.	
11	Accurately reflect behavior throughout the valid (MW and MVAr) output range from minimum power through maximum power.  Represent machine slip of Type III (DFIG) wind generation as appropriate for the power dispatch.  This value should be calculated and not require manual entry.	
12	Model main power transformer saturation based upon transformer test reports.  Model main power transformer protection system.  This feature is not required but recommended to help diagnose ferroresonance for resources locating close to series capacitors.	
13	If PLL loss of synchronism protection, phase angle jump protection, or anti-islanding protection is installed, confirm with the OEM that it is necessary protection and it is correctly modeled in PSCAD.  If not needed, ERCOT requests that these protections be disabled as they have been linked to ride through failures .  If needed, please describe why.	(Not installed / modeled & needed because...)
14	For Type 3 Wind Turbines, include a note, label, flag, or switch in the model indicating clearly whether subsynchronous damping controls are active.	
15	Model dynamics of the DC bus in the inverter/converter, including capacitor discharging and protection.	

Model Usability Features
In order to allow study engineers to perform system studies and analyze simulation results, the model provided for each facility shall:
15	Have pertinent control or hardware options accessible to the user (e.g. adjustable protection thresholds or real power recovery ramp rates).  Diagnostic flags (e.g. flags to show control mode changes or which protection has been activated) should be accessible to facilitate analysis and should clearly identify why a model trips during simulations.	
16	Accurately simulates for a timestep between 10 μs and 20 μs.  Requiring a smaller time step may mean that the control implementation has not used the interpolation features of PSCAD or has used inappropriate interfacing between the model and the larger network.  It is preferable if the model can operate accurately for any arbitrary timestep between 10 μs and 20 μs, however ERCOT may accept plant models that require a different time-step if the model simulates reasonably fast per ERCOT’s sole discretion.	
16.1	Completes a 10-second simulation in PSCAD in under approximately 300 seconds using a typical computer set up (under 180 seconds ideal). If taking more than 300 seconds, subject to further discussion.	
17	Include documentation and a sample implementation test case.  Access to technical support engineers is desirable.	
18	Be capable of initializing itself.  Models shall initialize and ramp to full output within without external input from simulation engineers.	
19	Accept external reference values.  This includes real and reactive power reference values (for Q control modes), or voltage reference values (for V control modes) and utilize a single parameter for adjusting real power, and separately, a single parameter for adjusting voltage setpoints.  Adjustments should be easy to identify, such as using memo markers or a slider control (preferred).	
20	Allow protection models to be disabled.  Many studies result in inadvertent tripping of converter equipment, and the ability to disable protection functions temporarily provides study engineers with valuable system diagnostic information.	
21	Provide a switch to disable saturation on the main power transformer and the inverter or turbine local transformers for investigation of ferroresonance.	
22	Allow the active power capacity of the model to be scaled.  This is distinct from a dispatchable power order and is used for modeling different plant capacities (e.g. if a portion of the plant is offline).	
23	Have a simple means to represent curtailed operation for a power response to a frequency dip versus uncurtailed operation for no response to a frequency dip.	
24	Avoid using PSCAD simulation sets, as these are difficult to incorporate into much larger cases.  Use of ETRAN+ is okay.  (ETRAN+ version 5 recommended.)	
25	Project PSCAD model should accept real power dispatch and voltage reference commands as a variable (not a Fortran constant) for external dispatch initialization.	
26	Project PSCAD model should accept reactive power initialization to seed the initial Power Plant Controller reactive state variable at the start of the simulation, rather than requiring the PPC to ramp up from zero.	

Model Efficiency Features
In order to improve study efficiency and model compatibility the following efficiency features are requested.  Note that no feature should compromise model accuracy.
25	Model is embedded into the PSCAD Template published at: https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re

26	Model is correctly connected to the Template and inputs real power reference (Pref), voltage setpoint (Vref), and initial reactive reference (Qref).  Model exports trip signals.	
27	Be compiled using Intel Fortran compiler and capable of running in Intel Fortran version 15 and higher and Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 and higher. Should not require a specific version of Intel Fortran and should support the new Intel OneAPI HPC free Fortran compiler.  	
28	Provide 32-bit and 64-bit versions of libraries.  As of 2025, Intel has discontinued their 32-bit Fortran compiler.	
29	Compatible with PSCAD version 5.0.1 and higher.	
30	Initialize quickly under 5 seconds to user supplied terminal conditions.	
31	Support multiple instances of its own definition in the same simulation case for situations where the same inverter resource is used at multiple sites.	
32	Support the PSCAD “snapshot” feature.	
33	Support the PSCAD “multiple run” feature.	
34	Allow replication in different PSCAD cases or libraries through the “copy” or “copy transfer” features.	


(Sample Verification Report)

Resource Name:  TURTLE GENERATION STATION	Date of this Report: 8/7/2023
Date(s) Field Settings Checked at Plant:
5/2023:  Protection and PSS settings 
6/2022:  Date of MOD-026/027 Reports	Names of Reference Documents (attached):
Turtle MOD-026/027 Reports
Turtle commissioning models


General Description:

This report is submitted to support the model parameters for the TURTLE GENERATING STATION.  The Governor and Exciter and Stabilizer models were checked through testing in the MOD-026/-027 reports.  In May of 2023, plant personnel downloaded the power system stabilizer and protection parameters to directly confirm the settings in those devices.  Tables of tunable or site-specific model parameters and their verified values are listed below.

(Notes to the author writing this Verification report:
1.	The new dynamic model Template contains a worksheet that can function as your verification report.  There is no need to prepare a separate report if you complete this worksheet and populate the field-verified data.
2.	You can verify either your PSS/e or your PSCAD model.  However, if you verify the PSCAD model, please provide evidence you also confirmed the protection models in the PSS/e model, since these are not guaranteed to match when overlaying PSS/e versus PSCAD in the MQT report.
a.	The new dynamic model Template provides helpful tips on this one. 
3.	Follow the instructions in the Model Quality Guide on submitting your models along with this report.  You must submit models when submitting a verification report.  This includes submitting both models, even if only verifying one or the other.)  

GENERATOR [GENROU], checked by commissioning model documents.
PSS/E Index	Parameter Name	Model Value	Actual Field Equipment	Verification Method	Match?
	H, Inertia	5.7	5.7	DOCS	Y
	S(1.0) Saturation	0.002	0.002	DOCS	Y
	S(1.2) Saturation	0.03	0.03	DOCS	Y


EXCITER [ESST4B], checked by MOD-026.
PSS/E Index	Parameter Name	Model Value	Actual Field Equipment	Verification Method	Match?
	AVR proportional Gain	110	110	MOD-026	Y
	AVR integral Gain	10	10	MOD-026	Y


STABILIZER [PSS2B], checked by directly query digital stabilizer settings.
PSS/E Index	Parameter Name	Model Value	Actual Field Equipment	Verification Method	Match?
	Tw1 First Washout	3.5	3.5	Direct	Y
	Tw2 Second washout	3.5	3.5	Direct	Y
	Tw1 First Washout	3.5	3.5	Direct	Y
	Tw2 Second washout	0.5	0.5	Direct	Y
	Ks2 Gain on Signal #2	0.4	0.4	Direct	Y
	Ks2 Gain on Signal #2	0.7	0.7	Direct	Y


GOVERNOR [GGOV1], checked by MOD-027.  Droop directly checked in equipment settings.
PSS/E Index	Parameter Name	Model Value	Actual Field Equipment	Verification Method	Match?
	Droop	5%	5%	Direct	Y
	Kpgov Proportional Gain	6.0	6.0	MOD-027	Y
	Kigov Integral Gain	0.5	0.5	MOD-027	Y
	Actuator Time Const	0.6	0.6	MOD-027	Y


PROTECTION [Overvoltage] checked directly in relay settings.
Model	Field Relay		
V Thres	Seconds	V Thres	Seconds	Verification Method	Match?
1.25	0.02	1.25	0.02	Inspection of relay curves	Y
1.11	8	1.11	8	Inspection of relay curves	Y
					


PROTECTION [Undervoltage] checked directly in relay settings.
Model	Field Relay		
V Thres	Seconds	V Thres	Seconds	Verification Method	Match?
0.6	0.02	1.25	0.02	Inspection of relay curves	Y
0.80	8	1.11	8	Inspection of relay curves	Y


PROTECTION [Underfrequency] checked directly in relay settings.
Model	Field Relay		
Hz Thres	Seconds	Hz Thres	Seconds	Verification Method	Match?
65	0.02	65	0.02	Inspection of relay curves	Y
62	8	62	8	Inspection of relay curves	Y


PROTECTION [Overfrequency] checked directly in relay settings.
Model	Field Relay		
Hz Thres	Seconds	Hz Thres	Seconds	Verification Method	Match?
57.5	0.02	57.5	0.02	Inspection of relay curves	Y
58.5	8	58.5	8	Inspection of relay curves	Y

ERCOT Public MODEL GUIDELINE
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline
Version 1.10
ERCOT June 2025
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Document Revisions
Date Version Description Author(s)
May 2020 1.0 Initial Draft Jonathan Rose
Reviewed by: John Schmall
September 2020 1.1 Add leading / lagging power factor
scenarios for VRT
Jonathan Rose
January 2021 1.2 Updates associated with PGRR 085 Jonathan Rose
Reviewed by: John Schmall
April 2021 1.3 Update link to Acceptable Model List,
elaborate TSAT data submission
requirements, add Table 1, and
miscellaneous edits for clarity
Jonathan Rose
Mehdi Daryabak
Reviewed by: John Schmall
August 2022 1.4 Update various out-of-date links and
Planning Guide references. Added
clarifications to Table 1.
John Schmall
January 2023 1.5 Clarifications, request overlaid PSS/E,
TSAT, PSCAD MQT plots, updated
DMVIEW instructions, add PCAR
Jonathan Rose
Reviewed by: John Schmall
March 2023 1.6 Update TSAT data submission and
TSAT MQT requirement. Add
PMVIEW.
ERCOT Operation Stability
Analysis Group, Dynamic
Studies
December 2023 1.7 Clarifications
June 2024 1.8 Clarifications, “combined MQT”
requirement, NOGRR245.
Dynamic Studies Department
March 2025 1.9 Reference to operational voltage
tolerance requirements on pgs. 4 and
8 and updated Planning Guide 5.5
section numbers, misc. updates.
Dynamic Studies Department
June 2025 1.10 Advanced Grid Support, misc. edits Dynamic Studies Department
© 2025 ERCOT 1
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Table of Contents
Executive Summary .................................................................................................................. 3
Where to Find Help ................................................................................................................... 3
ERCOT Dynamic Model Requirements .................................................................................... 4
AVR and PFR Testing and Modeling Switched Shunt and Transformer Tap Controllers........ 7
About Dynamic Models ........................................................................................................... 10
A Caution about Generic Models and MOD 026/027 Studies ................................................ 11
Dynamic Model Templates ..................................................................................................... 11
The Model Quality Test ........................................................................................................... 12
Using DMVIEW .................................................................................................................... 15
Using PMVIEW .................................................................................................................... 17
Unacceptable Test Results per the DWG Procedure Manual ................................................ 17
A special note on the frequency tests ..................................................................................... 17
Deliverables ............................................................................................................................ 18
Enclosures .............................................................................................................................. 20
References .............................................................................................................................. 20
© 2025 ERCOT 2
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Executive Summary
This guideline facilitates a Resource or Interconnecting Entity fulfill ERCOT Dynamic and Transient
model requirements outlined in the ERCOT Planning Guide (PG) Sections 5.5 and 6.2 and Dynamics
Working Group Procedure Manual Section 3. This guide applies to all modeled Resources.
Where to Find Help
• Questions regarding this guide…… dynamicmodels@ercot.com
• Interconnection and QSA issues……. Contact your Resource Integration (RI) engineer.
• General Interconnection questions…... ResourceIntegrationDepartment@ercot.com
• NOGRR-245 questions (Nodal Operating Guide Section 2) … nogrr245@ercot.com
• RIOO issues: Refer to the RIOO Documentation at https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re
o These helpful guides cover everything from setting up an account to using RIOO.
o Additional help:
▪ RIOO-IS issues (for interconnection projects) …. Contact your RI engineer.
▪ RIOO-RS issues (for online projects) …. Rioo-help@ercot.com
• Dynamic model questions: Email dynamicmodels@ercot.com (please include your registered
site-code1 in the email subject line if available).
• This Guide is posted at https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re , search Model Quality Guide
• DWG Procedure Manual Section 3.1 describes model requirements and model testing.
• Template issues or requesting a model Template: Email dynamicmodels@ercot.com with
“Template Issue” in the email subject line.
• TSAT model questions: Email dynamicmodels@ercot.com with “TSAT Question” in the
subject line.
• PSS/e and PSCAD model questions…… dynamicmodels@ercot.com
1 Site-code: Visible in RIOO under Substation → Code.
© 2025 ERCOT 3
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
ERCOT Dynamic Model Requirements
Before uploading a model to RIOO-RS, please ensure everything is included:
Check Model Requirement [PG Section 6.2(5)(a) and Section 5.5]
Consulted the Deliverables section at the end of this document for additional details?
A PSS/e version 35 and PSS/e version 36 model (.raw, .dyr files and .dll file if a user-defined
model; separate .dll files must be provided for version 35 and 36)
The model should not have been identified as unacceptable by NERC2
The model should include switched shunt and on-load transformer tap initialization scripts
(PSS/e Python format) and include dynamic control models
The number, size, and name of units in PSS/e and TSAT should match registration and should
not be aggregated differently. Unit definitions can be found in RIOO-RS under “Unit Attributes”.
IRR (wind and solar) models should be provided set up for “no-headroom” meaning that a
dispatch less than Pmax does not result in a power increase to a frequency drop. The model
manual should describe steps to place the model in a “headroom” (curtailed) state.
PSS/e model in Excel Template format. Blank Templates are downloadable from:
https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re . For User-Defined Models (UDMs), the new “Universal”
model Template included in this package should be capable of importing any type of PSS/e
model. Problems?: Email dynamicmodels@ercot.com with “Template Issue” in the subject line.
A TSAT model if submitting a user-defined PSS/E model (.raw, .dyr, .dll, and .tudm files)
Two TSAT example cases, one set up using bus numbers matching the PSS/e case and the
other set up using equipment names. Include a space in the generator node name(s) to confirm
that the model is compatible with space characters. (include .pfb plus above files)
The TSAT .dyr file should interoperate with the PSS/e .dyr file.
The TSAT .tudm file should only define the structure of the model and shall not include any
project-specific information
Model manuals (okay to reference PSS/e manuals if using standard library models). PSCAD
models must include manuals.
PSCAD for Inverter-Based Resources (IBRs), embedded in the PSCAD Template
downloadable from Dynamic Templates at https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re
Completed PSCAD Guideline checksheet. Available in the Model Quality Guide package.
Model Quality Test report per DWG Procedure Manual. Plots should overlay PSS/e, PSCAD,
and TSAT models as required. [PG Section 6.2(5)(c), PG Section 5.5(4) and 5.5(6)]
Model matches field equipment and appears to meet the performance requirements in the DWG
Procedure Manual section 3.1.5. If not, please explain limitations.
Plant should regulate POIB voltages within the tolerance specified in NOG 2.7.3.5(4). This
generally means that plant should provide full reactive capability of at least 0.95 pf or better at
2 https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ModelAssessment/Pages/default.aspx . Click on “Dynamic Modeling
Recommendations.” See Appendix A. If unacceptable, must be corrected at the next MOD-026/027 review.
© 2025 ERCOT 4
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
POIB, in response to a voltage step of 4 kV for a 345 kV POIB, a step of 2 kV for a 138 kV
POIB, and a step of 1 kV for a 69 kV POIB. It is recommended that REs test such a voltage
step and model switched shunt controls to identify issues where their proposed model and
settings may not meet operational requirements. Refer to Page 7.
Plant Verification Report if updating field settings or any time per PG 5.5(6)(c). Details on this
report can be found in the About Verification Report included in this package.
A Unit Model Validation (“Hardware Benchmark”) report is required to enter the QSA.
[PG Section 6.2(5)(d), DWG Procedure Manual Section 3.1.6]
© 2025 ERCOT 5
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
FIS Intercon-
nection
• Submit PSS/e and PSCAD models. VRT capability assessed during FIS studies
• Recommend the IE run MQT and overlay PSS/e and PSCAD to avoid QSA delays
• Recommend IE test plant model Automatic Voltage Regulation (AVR) and primary frequency
response (PFR) for compliance (refer to next section)
Entering
QSA
• Submit complete PSS/e, PSCAD, and MQT with overlay; both models in Template format
• Include a Unit Model Validation report. Refer to DWG Procedure Manual 3.1.6.
• Recommend confirm AVR and PFR model response in preparation for commissioning tests
(refer to next section)
• Check that field settings match QSA model parameters
Before Synch-
ronization
Before
Commission-
ing (Part 3)
(IBRs only)
• Submit an MQT comparing “as-built” model response with the QSA model response. Submit
separate MQT comparisons for PSS/e and PSCAD.
• Submit “as-built” models and re-submit QSA models, both PSS/e and PSCAD.
• Refer to Planning Guide 5.5(4) --> Please follow the submission instructions!
• Submit final PSS/e, PSCAD, (and TSAT) models to RIOO-RS
• Include an MQT overlay of PSS/e and PSCAD (and TSAT)
• Include a Verification Report. Further instructions in Figure 2
Commissioning
(Part 3 approval)
within 30 days
1-2 Years after
Commissioning
and for MOD-
026/027 and
Every 10 Years
• Re-submit final PSS/e, PSCAD, and TSAT models and MQT overlay to RIOO-RS
• Submit an updated Verification Report. If no changes since the previous Verification, indicate
the date and method this was checked in an updated Verification report.
• Further instructions in Figure 2
Before Making
a Field
Change (IBRs
Only)
• Before making a field change affecting the dynamic response, submit an MQT overlay of the
proposed change model versus the as-built model. Include both models and required files.
• MQT overlay in PSS/e and a separate MQT overlay in PSCAD.
• Refer to Planning Guide 5.5(6)(a) --> Please follow the submission instructions!
• Submit final PSS/e, PSCAD, (and TSAT) models to RIOO-RS
• Include an MQT overlay of PSS/e and PSCAD (and TSAT)
• Include a Verification Report. Further instructions in Figure 2.
After Making a
Field Change,
Within 30 days
Figure 1: Model milestones.
© 2025 ERCOT 6
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
AVR and PFR Testing and Modeling Switched Shunt and Transformer
Tap Controllers
Automatic Voltage Regulation (AVR) and Primary Frequency Response (PFR) are required for all
resource facilities according to Section 2 of the Nodal Operating Guides. During Part 2 of the
commissioning process, ERCOT will require operational testing of both.
ERCOT has observed many plants needing to making field adjustments during commissioning. These
adjustments sometimes conflict with performance objectives in the Model Quality Testing, resulting in
additional model updates, and ultimately, a second round of field adjustments and testing.
Interconnecting Entities can usually avoid these complications by ensuring that the models are
accurate representations of the future facility and subjecting the models to AVR and PFR tests during
the planning stage. This requires precise modeling of any switched shunt and transformer tap
controllers and ensuring they are well coordinated with protection settings and the generator reactive
controller. To facilitate this effort, ERCOT is strongly encouraging all resources to model such
controllers and provide initialization scripts in PSS/e (Python format) to ensure that the taps
and switched shunts are initialized in the correct position for power flow initial conditions (real
and reactive dispatch, POI voltage, etc.). When reviewing submitted models, ERCOT has often
needed to reach out regarding an MQT test reflecting poor performance. The Resource Entities (REs)
reaches out to their consultant, who investigates and finds that the switched shunts were not initialized
in the proper position. ERCOT must then re-review the model. This inefficient back-and-forth can
again be avoided by REs who provide accurate models of their shunt / tap controllers.
• Nodal Operating Guide 2.7.3.5(4) requires plants to regulate their POIB voltage within a tight
tolerance. For example, externally applying a 4 kV voltage step at a 345 kV POIB should result in
the model’s voltage regulator transitioning the model to maximum reactive power exchange
(generally better than 0.95 power factor). Thus, it is recommended to model test applying the
following voltage steps to the POIB: ±4 kV step for a 345 kV POIB, ±2 kV for a 138 kV POIB, and
a ±1 kV for a 69 kV POIB.
• Refer here for a sample IRR AVR test. For more information on the PFR and AVR testing,
contact Resource Integration. ResourceIntegrationDepartment@ercot.com
➔ Please provide accurate dynamic models for all switched shunt and transformer tap controllers
and provide Python file initialization scripts or powerflow model parameters for PSS/e so that
the correct initial shunt / transformer tap position is selected for the initial POI conditions.
© 2025 ERCOT 7
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ?
PLANNING
MODEL UPDATE FOR
RESOURCE IN THE
PLANNING STAGE
ERCOT Public
Submit PSCAD model (IBRs) prior to starting SSR
study or entering QSA
Also submit Unit Model Validation and TSAT/PSCAD Model
Quality Test. Ref ERCOT Planning Guide 6.2(5)(c) to (d).
Before Part 3 of
Resource
Commissioning
OPERATIONAL RESOURCE
PROPOSED
CHANGE AT
RESOURCE
Check AVR / PFR compliance
(previous page) and run Model
Quality Test on PSS/E model
before starting FIS. See Note 1.
Run a comparison Model
Quality Test (MQT), overlaying
the QSA model versus the
current field settings model.
Planning Guide (PG) 5.5(4).
Submit to ERCOT for approval. ERCOT may
decide the change requires further study.
Email notification to
dynamicmodels@ercot.com with “IBR Prior to
Commissioning” in subject. Ref. Note 2.
If the proposed
change falls under
PG 5.2.1(1), stop
and contact
Resource
Integration.
For IBRs, overlay an MQT
of the old versus new
model response.
PG 5.5(6)(a). (Synchronous
facilities, skip to “Submit a
model package” block.)
Submit to TSP and ERCOT for
approval. Email notification
to dynamicmodels@ercot.com
with “IBR Proposed
Modification” in the subject.
ERCOT may decide further
study is required.
Update PSS/E, TSAT, and PSCAD.
Include a combined Model Quality Test
with PSS/E-PSCAD-TSAT overlay. PG
6.2(5)(c). Ref Note 2.
Run Model Quality Test and
Parameter Verification report
during MOD 26/27 study
(Note final submission to ERCOT
will require MQT to have PSCAD-
Dynamic Model overlay)
ALWAYS submit updated
Dynamic Model Template
Even if the model did not change,
update the MOD 26/27 date in the
template and submit to RIOO
Figure 2: Model update process flow for Resource Entities (REs) and Interconnecting Entities (IEs).
Note 1: IBRs, a joint Model Quality Test report (showing the PSS/E and PSCAD models overlaid) is required to enter the QSA and may be advisable to enter the FIS.
Note 2: Follow instructions in this document for submission of models. Per the DWG Procedure Manual, PSCAD models are generally required for all inverter-based resources (certain IBRs
constructed prior to 2015 may only require a PSCAD model if requested by ERCOT). TSAT models are required if utilizing a PSS/E model that is user-defined. Resource Owners must notify the
interconnecting TSP of any model updates.
Within 30 days of ERCOT granting Part 3
approval, then per PG 5.5(5)…
After the change is
approved and
within 30 days after
implementation,
then…
Submit a model package and
verification report. The MQT
should overlay the new PSS/e,
TSAT, and PSCAD as applicable
(not include the old model).
PG 5.5(6)(c)
MODEL CORRECTION
/ UPDATE (No change
at facility)
SCHEDULED
NERC MOD
26/27 Model
Validation
Submit Dynamic Model Update Package
to ERCOT as a zip file upload to RIOO-RS.
Include all relevant models (PSS/E, TSAT,
PSCAD), even models that are not being
updated, and overlay in the MQT report.
Refer to Note 2 for package contents.
Also notify TSP of the change.
TSP
Review &
Approval
RE action
TSP / ERCOT action
© 2025 ERCOT 8
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Requirement Applicable Facilities Required Tests(1) When to Update Responsible
Entity
Model Quality Test for PSS/E,
All Resources and Inverter-Based
Flat start, small and large voltage
A new or updated PSS/E, TSAT, or
Facility owner
PSCAD model. Model updates are
TSAT, and PSCAD Models
Transmission Elements
disturbance, small frequency
required:
(RE, IE, or TSP)
• TSAT required if utilizing a
disturbance, system strength, and
1. When there is a change at the
user-defined model (UDM)
phase angle jump(2) tests
facility (refer to flow chart on
(A single report should show
• PSCAD generally required for
previous page).
the PSS/E, TSAT, and PSCAD
Inverter-based Resources
• Advanced Grid Support (AGS, e.g.,
2. To enter QSA.
model responses overlaid on
(IBRs) and Inverter-based
“grid forming”) resources have
3. Before requesting Part 3 approval.
Dynamic Transmission
the same plot axes.)
modified MQT tests which include
Elements
4. Within 30 days of Part 3 approval.
inertia response test and a loss of
5. Completing MOD-026/027 studies.
synchronous machine test (3)
Unit Model Validation for
Inverter-based Resources (IBRs) Step change in voltage, large voltage
A new PSCAD model provided after
Facility owner
PSCAD Model(4)
disturbance, system strength, phase
3/1/21. (UMV reports should not need
(RE or IE)
angle jump, and subsynchronous tests
updating for model parameter
updates.)
Model Parameter Verification
All Resources and Inverter-Based
Provide evidence that tunable model
A report is required:
Facility owner
1. Within 30 days of Part 3 approval,
(“Verification Report”)
Transmission Elements
parameters match what is
(RE, IE, or TSP)
2. Within 12 to 24 months after Part 3
implemented in the field. Evidence can
approval. (Projects built before
take the form of screenshots,
March 1, 2021, required by March
nameplate photographs, signed
1, 2023),
manufacturer commissioning reports,
3. A minimum of every ten years, and
4. Within 30 days of implementing a
etc.
change at the facility.
(1). Detailed test information is available in the DWG Procedural Manual 3.1.5.
(2). System strength and phase angle jump tests are only applicable to inverter-based facilities. The phase angle jump test is required only for the PSCAD model.
(3). Refer to the “List of Applicable Tests” table in the DWG Procedure Manual for details on which tests apply for each technology.
(4). Benchmark the PSCAD model against actual hardware measurements. This is not a site-specific test; the same report can be submitted whenever the same hardware is used.
© 2025 ERCOT 9
All rights reserved.
Planning Guide
Language
PG 6.2(5)(c),
PG 6.2.1,
PG 5.5(6)(b)
PG 5.5(4),
DWG
Procedure
Manual 3.1.5(3)
PG 6.2(5)(d),
DWG
Procedure
Manual 3.1.6
PG 5.5(5)
PG 5.5(6)(c),
PG 6.2(5)(b)
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
About Dynamic Models
Dynamic models are utilized to simulate time-domain phenomena on the ERCOT system. These
models use mathematical state equations to represent generating plant behavior to disturbances. A
summary of the types of models is listed below.
DYNAMIC STABILITY MODELS
(PSS/E and TSAT)
• Used for general dynamic simulations
• Required for all modeled generators
• Submitted using Dynamic Model Templates
• Manual should illustrate control logic
• Must undergo model quality testing
• Either Standard Library or UDM (User-
Defined)
TRANSIENT (EMT) MODELS
(PSCAD)
• Used for specialized studies
• Required for all inverter-based equipment
including wind, solar, batteries
• Must complete PSCAD Model Guideline
check sheet
• Manual should describe model set up
• Must undergo model quality testing
DYNAMIC STABILITY MODELS CAN BE STANDARD LIBRARY OR UDM
• Standard Library models come included in the software. This includes WECC “Generic”
models and most synchronous power plant models
• User-Defined Models (UDM) models may provide a more accurate response
• UDM require .DLL files from the OEM for PSS/E and .DLL and .TUDM files for TSAT
• UDM typically require update with each new version of software*
• UDM models should adhere to the enclosed ERCOT UDM Guideline
• Either UDM or Std. Library/Generic are acceptable for ERCOT and for MOD 26/27 studies
• Generic WECC models should be confirmed by the manufacturer
* In many cases, this update effort is minimal. Manufacturers compile an updated version of their .DLL file. The parameters
representing site-specific settings may remain the same in which case the MQT report would not require updating.
Figure 3: Model Types
ERCOT requires models to be provided supporting PSS/E and TSAT software and also requires
PSCAD models for IBRs (e.g., wind / solar / battery resources). These models are typically furnished
by the device manufacturer and should reflect the site-specific settings and layout of the plant all the
way up to the Point of Interconnection (POI). The stability models for can be of either UDM or Standard
Library/Generic type. Both types are acceptable for use in MOD 26/27 studies. See discussion on
the next page.
© 2025 ERCOT 10
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
A Caution about Generic Models and MOD 026/027 Studies
Many REs appear to be using generic models for their MOD 26/27 studies. While not prohibited,
ERCOT has observed a high proportion of these models not yielding acceptable response, are no
longer passing Voltage Ride Through, or have a response that is markedly different than the original
UDM model without providing technical rationale. Per the rules in Planning Guide Section 6, ERCOT
will reject such models. Please refer to the enclosed presentation.
The cause of this problem is perhaps rooted in the fact that generic models are lower fidelity models
and necessitate great care in choosing appropriate parameters. The expertise necessary to convert
from a UDM model to a generic model usually requires involvement of the manufacturer and is
sometimes not within the expertise of 3rd party consultants advertising MOD 26/27 services.
In the ERCOT region, UDM models are allowed for MOD 26/27 studies and there is no requirement
that generic models must be used. ERCOT DWG has adopted the “unacceptable” portion of the NERC
Acceptable Models List3
.
4 Thus REs may use any model that NERC has not classified as unacceptable
including models not appearing on the NERC list.
ERCOT recommends Resource or Interconnecting Entities providing a generic model to obtain
confirmation from their equipment manufacturer to ensure that the generic model is appropriate.
Dynamic Model Templates
Dynamic stability (PSSE/TSAT) and transient (PSCAD) models are submitted to ERCOT using model
templates. The templates are downloadable from the ERCOT Resource Entity webpage:
→ https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re
The posted templates support a wide range of manufacturers and technologies. If you find that your
dynamic model is not supported by the posted templates, contact dynamicmodels@ercot.com and put
the phrase “Template Issue” in the email subject.
Any updated PSCAD models should be submitted in PSCAD Template format. The PSCAD Template
is stored in the same zip file as the dynamic model Templates. There is an included slide tutorial.
3 NERC Acceptable Models List, https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ModelAssessment/Pages/default.aspx
4 ERCOT rule regarding acceptable models: Refer to Section 3.1.9 of the DWG Procedure Manual, posted at
https://www.ercot.com/committees/ros/dwg
© 2025 ERCOT 11
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
The Model Quality Test
The model quality test is designed to help a Resource or Interconnecting Entity test their model before
submitting to ERCOT. This helps ensure the model meets requirements and reduces arduous back
and forth communication and corrections. Two optional tools are provided to facilitate testing:
DMVIEW for PSS/E and PMVIEW for PSCAD. (No tool is currently provided for TSAT however it is
straightforward to set up using the TSAT injection function. Search for “Voltage and Frequency/Angle
Injection Data” in the TSAT Model Manual.) At the conclusion of the test, the Resource or
Interconnecting Entity provides a test report and testing files to ERCOT via RIOO.
• Model quality tests must be performed using the current version of the Planning
Software (ref. DWG Manual 3.1.5.1). DWG is in the process of transitioning to PSS/e
version 36; thus, the MQT may be run in either PSS/e version 35 or PSS/e version 36. The
current version of PSCAD is version 4.5 or higher (ref. DWG Manual 3.1.1).
• Model quality tests must be provided whenever providing a new or updated PSS/E, TSAT, or
PSCAD model.
o Standard library/generic models are not required to provide an MQT report testing
the model in TSAT. User-defined models (UDM) are required to provide an MQT
report testing the model in TSAT as well as PSS/E.
• In most situations, the PSS/E, TSAT and PSCAD models should be updated at the same
time. Please overlay the PSS/E-TSAT-PSCAD MQT plots to facilitate comparison.
• For synchronous plants, a MOD 26/27 test report plus TSP usability report of the same
model may fulfill ERCOT’s model quality test requirements. However, for inverter-based
resources, MOD 26/27 reports do not fulfill the MQT requirements.
• Resources should perform model quality testing at the same time as conducting MOD 26/27.
The table below summarizes the required MQT tests for each type of facility:
Hybrid Facility
(battery + other
generator)
Solar or Wind Battery only (ESR) Self-Limited (SLF)
Hybrid Facility
Run all MQT tests at
Run all MQT tests at
Run all MQT tests under
Run all MQT tests under
100% generation unless
100% charging and again
the following 4 scenarios:
the following 4 scenarios:
indicated otherwise by the
at 100% discharging
• Standalone battery
• Standalone battery
test (e.g. most frequency
unless otherwise indicated
charging
charging
tests run at 80%)
by the test.
• Standalone battery
• Standalone battery
discharging
discharging
• Standalone generator
• Standalone generator
with battery offline
with battery offline
• Battery discharging +
• Battery discharging at
100% generation
50% plus generator at
50% (adjust if
necessary to respect
limit)
© 2025 ERCOT 12
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Hybrid plants consisting of an energy storage system (“ESS”) plus some other generation resource
(“non-ESS”) are required to run a combined MQT and submit combined models if any of the
following apply:
• The different components share one or more main power transformers
• The different components share a common control system, such as a master power plant
controller
• If neither of these apply, then the hybrid plant may submit separate models and separate
MQTs of the ESS and of the non-ESS. The MQT of the ESS must consider both charging
and discharging scenarios.
© 2025 ERCOT 13
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Energy Storage Resources consisting of Advanced Grid Support (AGS-ESR) must run the required
AGS-ESR scenarios (refer to the “List of Applicable Tests” table in the DWG Procedure Manual).
Table: Required Tests for an AGS-ESR only Facility and DWG Procedure Manual Section
Stand-alone AGS-ESR
Run these tests for
• Flat-start, 3.1.5.2
both charging and
• Large volt disturbance
o LVRT Test, 3.1.5.4
again for discharging
o HVRT Test, 3.1.5.5
Test discharging only • AGS small volt disturbance, 3.1.5.11
• AGS system strength, 3.1.5.13
• AGS phase angle jump, 3.1.5.14
Test at 0 MW dispatch • AGS frequency change and inertia response, 3.1.5.12
Test with other
dispatch scenario
• AGS Loss of synchronous machine, refer to 3.1.5.15 for the dispatch
Table: Required Tests for a Hybrid AGS-ESR Facility and DWG Procedure Manual Section
AGS-ESR component
online, non-AGS-ESR
offline
AGS-ESR component offline,
non-AGS-ESR IBR online,
Both AGS-ESR component
online and non-AGS-ESR
IBR online
Run these
Flat-start, 3.1.5.2
• Flat-start, 3.1.5.2
tests for both
Large volt disturbance
• Small volt disturbance,
LVRT Test, 3.1.5.4
3.1.5.3
charging and
HVRT Test, 3.1.5.5
• Large volt disturbance
again for
o LVRT Test, 3.1.5.4
discharging
o HVRT Test, 3.1.5.5
• Small frequency disturbance,
3.1.5.7
• System Strength, 3.1.5.8
• Phase Angle Jump, 3.1.5.9
Test
discharging
only
AGS small volt
disturbance, 3.1.5.11
AGS system strength,
3.1.5.13
AGS phase angle jump,
3.1.5.14
• Flat-start, 3.1.5.2
• Small volt disturbance,
3.1.5.3
• Large volt disturbance
o LVRT Test, 3.1.5.4
o HVRT Test, 3.1.5.5
• Small frequency
disturbance, 3.1.5.7
• System Strength, 3.1.5.8
• Phase Angle Jump, 3.1.5.9
Test at 0 MW
• AGS frequency
dispatch
change and inertia
response, 3.1.5.12
Test with other
dispatch
scenario
• AGS Loss of
synchronous machine,
refer to 3.1.5.15 for the
dispatch
© 2025 ERCOT 14
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
A sample testing report is enclosed with this document. Details on the model quality test can be
found in the most recent DWG Procedure Manual, Section 3.1.5 posted at:
→ https://www.ercot.com/committees/ros/dwg
The DWG Procedure Manual Section 3.1.5 contains information:
• How to set up the simulation
• Types of tests to perform
• Test criteria
• Example plots
Using DMVIEW
Dynamic Model reView (DMVIEW) is an optional external tool that can be used to perform model
testing in PSS/E. Download the tool from:
→ https://sites.google.com/view/dmview/home
Before using DMVIEW, you must have a working dynamic case with your plant modeled up to the
Point of Interconnection (POI). Please refer to the DMVIEW manual for complete instructions as
well as the DWG Procedure Manual Section 3.1.5 for how to set up the case. Some helpful tips are
provided here.
1. Copy your model files to a new folder under the CASEs folder. Follow the DMVIEW Program
Manual instructions to place a slack generator connected to the POI bus by a zero-impedance
line. Tip: ERCOT has found that adding a very small amount of impedance to the zero-
impedance line will facilitate setting an initial reactive flow. For example, use a value of 0.001
reactance.
a. The generator is connected to the medium voltage bus by the appropriate transformers
and collector system equivalent. Note: You must use an aggregate model (i.e. do not
model individual wind turbines or solar inverters). Several methods exist for calculating
the equivalent collector impedance; see for instance the NREL/WECC method5
.
b. Refer to the DWG Procedure Manual Section 3.1.5 for information on setting up the
initial voltage schedule and dispatch.
i. For most of the tests, you can set up an initial 0 MVAr reactive exchange at
the POI. A convenient way to achieve this is to set the voltage schedules of
the slack generator and test generator to 1.0 per-unit and set the test generator
to regulate the POI bus. For the lead and lag Voltage Ride Through tests
(LVRT/HVRT), you can modify the voltage schedule of the test generator
slightly to achieve a desired reactive dispatch at the POI or the latest version
of DMVIEW accepts POI_
PF = 0.95 command in the INI file for lagging
and -0.95 for leading. Tip: Assign the “zero impedance” branch a slight non-
zero impedance, say 0.001 reactance, to facilitate voltage control initialization.
c. Ensure that the powerflow solves.
5 E. Muldadi, “Method of Equivalencing for a Large Wind Power Plant with Multiple Turbine Representation.”
NREL Conference paper, July 2008. https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy08osti/42886.pdf
© 2025 ERCOT 15
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
2. 3. d. For Inverter-Based Resources (including Wind, Solar, and Batteries), you will generally
need to set up four powerflow cases and run DMVIEW four times:
i. Case with 100% real power and minimal reactive power exchange
ii. Case with 80% real power and minimal reactive power exchange for the
frequency step tests
iii. Case with 100% real power and 0.95 power factor leading at the POI for the
voltage ride through tests (also called the Large Voltage Disturbance tests)
iv. Case with 100% real power and 0.95 power factor lagging at the POI for the
voltage ride through tests (also called the Large Voltage Disturbance tests)
Copy one of the example INI files (either Wind.ini or Solar.ini) and edit the path names to
correctly point to your project files.
Change the tests specified in the INI file: (for synchronous plants, see footnote6)
Test1_FS = ['FS','10']
Test2_VDWN = ['VOLT','DATAs\\ERCOT_VOLT-STEP-DOWN.xlsx']
Test3_VUP = ['VOLT','DATAs\\ERCOT_VOLT-STEP-UP.xlsx']
Test4_HVRT = ['VOLT','DATAs\\ERCOT_HVRT.xlsx']
Test5_LVRT = ['VOLT','DATAs\\ERCOT_LVRT.xlsx']
Test6_FRQDWN = ['FREQ','DATAs\\ERCOT_FRQ-STEP-DOWN.xlsx']
Test7_FRQDWN = ['FREQ','DATAs\\ERCOT_FRQ-STEP-UP.xlsx']
Test8_SCR2 = ['SCR2', '10->5->3->1.5->1.2, 5, 1'] /SCR is changed from 10 to
1.2 in 5 second intervals, with fault.
4. 5. 6. These settings will run the following tests:
• No disturbance 10-second Flat Start
• POI Voltage Step Down 3%
• POI Voltage Step Up 3%
• HVRT
• LVRT
• Frequency Step Down 0.3 Hz, assuming no headroom
• Frequency Step Down 0.3 Hz, assuming headroom7
• Frequency Step Up 0.3 Hz
• Short Circuit Ratio Test
Follow the program instructions to run the tool.
Compare your result plots to the examples illustrated in the DWG Procedural Manual. From
these, you should get a good idea whether your model will be acceptable.
Prepare a test report similar to the enclosed example. Submit to ERCOT.
6 For synchronous plants such as fossil, delete the HVRT, LVRT, and SCR2 tests and add Test8_FAULT = ['FAULT','-
2e10'] at the end. You will need version 2.5.1 or higher of DMVIEW.
7 “Headroom / no headroom”: Refer to discussion under the heading “A special note on the frequency tests.”
© 2025 ERCOT 16
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Using PMVIEW
PSCAD Model reView (PMVIEW) is an optional external tool that can be used to perform model
tested in PSCAD. One benefit over other tools is that it will perform most tests in one button click
using the PSCAD multi-run block. Download the tool from:
➔ https://sites.google.com/view/pmview
Before using PMVIEW, you must have a working PSCAD case with your plant modeled up to the
Point of Interconnection (POI). A brief manual is included in the download. More help is available
once the tool is opened in PSCAD; the tool has numerous comment boxes to guide you through
usage.
Unacceptable Test Results per the DWG Procedure Manual
If you find that your model is unacceptable and it is for an existing resource, provide a description of
the issue, including whether the shortcoming is limited to the model or whether the shortcoming really
exists in the field. Your priority is to first provide an accurate model of your resource as it exists in the
field. Then afterwards, develop a plan to correct the shortcoming. Provide a proposed model
illustrating the corrected response to ERCOT for review along with an estimated timeline. After
adjustments are made, a new PSS/E / TSAT / PSCAD model, model quality test reports, and
verification report should be submitted.
A special note on the frequency tests
Renewable generators typically operate in a “power availability” state without headroom. Thus, there
will be no response to a low frequency event unless the plant is curtailed (i.e., has headroom). By
default, the model should be set up to interpret PGEN < PMAX to mean that power availability is less
than capability (e.g., wind speed or solar insolation is lower than maximum) so the model should not
respond to a low frequency event. There should be some means to enable headroom (such as a
switch or flag in the dynamic model) to tell the model to instead interpret PGEN < PMAX to mean that
the facility is curtailed. The dynamic model should not require adjusting PMAX to indicate whether
headroom is available. A flag in the dynamic model would be the preferred means to indicate
headroom availability. (This discussion only applies to renewable units; for conventional units the
difference between PGEN and the temperature-compensated PMAX is typically available to the
governor for frequency response.)
ERCOT requires that all intermittent renewable (IRR) models be able to operate in the “no headroom”
state and this be the default setting when the model is received. If the model is not currently capable
of being switched for headroom / no headroom, then this limitation should be explained in the quality
report with a note when the feature will be added.
© 2025 ERCOT 17
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Deliverables
Models and Verification reports should be submitted to ERCOT’s RIOO-RS portal:
• Select your plant or station and begin a New Change Request. The type of Change Request
should be an “Attachment Only” change request.
• Upload all files as attachments. Compressed .zip file format works best. The maximum size
per file is approximately 60 MB so it may be necessary to split large files into smaller files by
un-zipping them first and re-zipping them.
• Be sure to upload all plant models, manuals, and reports to the change request, even
models that are not being changed (Refer to Section 1 of this document, ERCOT Dynamic
Model Requirements). Thus, for example, if you are updating the PSS/E model, then please
attach your latest PSCAD model as well for IBR plants. To indicate whether a model is being
updated, please indicate the model update date in the filename. For example, a PSCAD
model which was last updated December 27th 2018 for Sitecode Turtle should be named
“TURTLE_PSCAD_2018-12-27.zip” Refer below for file naming instructions.
• If you have difficulties using RIOO-RS, first see the RIOO guides posted at
https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re and, if that does not resolve your issue, then email
RIOO-help@ercot.com. If all else fails, reach out to your ERCOT client services account
manager asking to submit files an MIS service request. You will need a digital certificate with
role assigned called “MP Assets” in order to make the upload.
Submitting PSS/E and TSAT models:
✓ Model contained within an Excel model template8
✓ If the model is a user-defined model (UDM), then submit:
o Models adhering to the requirements in the included “ERCOT UDM Guideline”
o PSS/E model package (including .sav or .raw, .dyr, and .dll files) set up based on the
bus numbers that aligns with the bus numbers in the TSAT model package
o TSAT model package (.raw, .dyr, .dll, and .tudm files) set up based on the bus numbers
that align with the bus numbers in the PSS/E model package
o TSAT model package (.pfb, .dyr, .dll, and .tudm files) set up based on Equipment
Names. The equipment names should include a space in the names to demonstrate
that the UDM model is compatible with the space character (an ERCOT TSAT
requirement)
o A model manual describing simulation set-up, tunable parameters, and illustrating a
functional control block diagram
o Include switched shunt and transformer tap initialization scripts and controls as
necessary
✓ Model Quality Test report (a sample report is included)
o Include the test case consisting of .sav, .dyr, and any .dll files.
8 Blank Templates for PSS/e and PSCAD can be downloaded from: https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re User-defined model
templates are available upon request by emailing dynamicmodels@ercot.com with “Template Request” in the email subject line.
© 2025 ERCOT 18
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
o Overlay the PSCAD and TSAT model responses with the PSS/E model response.
(TSAT is required for UDM models and PSCAD is required for most IBR models.)
Submitting PSCAD models:
✓ Model contained within a PSCAD template
✓ PSCAD model with model manual
✓ Completed PSCAD model guideline (a blank guideline checksheet is included)
✓ Model Quality Test report showing the PSS/E and TSAT model responses overlaid
✓ Unit model verification (“hardware benchmark”) (required for resources interconnected after
3/1/2021)
File Submission and Naming Guides:
• For the PSS/E / TSAT models, package all files into a single compressed zip file, name the
file: (SITECODE)_DYNAMIC_(date).zip with the appropriate sitecode and date, and upload
to ERCOT’s RIOO portal.
• For the PSCAD model, package all files into a single compressed zip file, name the file:
(SITECODE)_PSCAD_(date).zip, and upload to ERCOT’s RIOO portal.
• The “date” in the filename should refer to the date that the model was last updated.
• RIOO has an upload file size limit of approximately 60 MB. If your file is too large, you may
need to re-zip a file, splitting the contents into several smaller zip files for upload.
• Please submit all models, even models that you are not currently updating. For example, an
IBR utilizing a UDM model should submit the PSS/E, TSAT, and PSCAD models. The date
in the filename will indicate to ERCOT whether, for example, the PSCAD model was
updated.
Operational resources must also submit a model parameter verification report as required by
Planning Guide 5.5 (5) and Planning Guide 5.5 (6)(c). Refer to the “About Verification Reports”
document for additional information about this report.
Questions:
➔ Regarding dynamic models? → dynamicmodels@ercot.com
➔ Regarding RIOO / RIOO-RS system? → RIOO-HELP@ercot.com
➔ Additional contacts found in the “Where to Find Help” section of this document.
© 2025 ERCOT 19
All rights reserved.
ERCOT Dynamic Model Submittal Guideline ERCOT Public
Enclosures
• ERCOT PSCAD Model Guideline
• ERCOT UDM Model Guideline
• ERCOT presentation, Caution with Generic Models
• Memo on REGC Generic Models
• Sample model quality test report and files
• Sample verification (PVR) report
• About Verification Reports informational document
References
• Dynamic Model Templates, posted at https://www.ercot.com/services/rq/re
• DMView PSS/E model testing tool. Available at https://sites.google.com/view/dmview/home
• PMView PSCAD model testing tool. Available at https://sites.google.com/view/pmview
• NERC Unacceptable Model List
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ModelAssessment/Pages/default.aspx
• DWG Procedure Manual Section 3.1.5 https://www.ercot.com/committees/ros/dwg
• ERCOT Planning Guide Section 5.5 and Section 6,
http://www.ercot.com/mktrules/guides/planning/current
• NOGRR-245 Market Notice, https://www.ercot.com/services/comm/mkt_notices/M-A010825-01
o Questions regarding NOGRR-245 (and Nodal Operating Guide Section 2) → nogrr245@ercot.com
© 2025 ERCOT 20
All rights reserved.
(Sample Verification Report)

Resource Name:  TURTLE GENERATION STATION	Date of this Report: 8/7/2023
Date(s) Field Settings Checked at Plant:
5/2023:  Protection and PSS settings 
6/2022:  Date of MOD-026/027 Reports	Names of Reference Documents (attached):
Turtle MOD-026/027 Reports
Turtle commissioning models


General Description:

This report is submitted to support the model parameters for the TURTLE GENERATING STATION.  The Governor and Exciter and Stabilizer models were checked through testing in the MOD-026/-027 reports.  In May of 2023, plant personnel downloaded the power system stabilizer and protection parameters to directly confirm the settings in those devices.  Tables of tunable or site-specific model parameters and their verified values are listed below.

(Notes to the author writing this Verification report:
1.	The new dynamic model Template contains a worksheet that can function as your verification report.  There is no need to prepare a separate report if you complete this worksheet and populate the field-verified data.
2.	You can verify either your PSS/e or your PSCAD model.  However, if you verify the PSCAD model, please provide evidence you also confirmed the protection models in the PSS/e model, since these are not guaranteed to match when overlaying PSS/e versus PSCAD in the MQT report.
a.	The new dynamic model Template provides helpful tips on this one. 
3.	Follow the instructions in the Model Quality Guide on submitting your models along with this report.  You must submit models when submitting a verification report.  This includes submitting both models, even if only verifying one or the other.)  

GENERATOR [GENROU], checked by commissioning model documents.
PSS/E Index	Parameter Name	Model Value	Actual Field Equipment	Verification Method	Match?
	H, Inertia	5.7	5.7	DOCS	Y
	S(1.0) Saturation	0.002	0.002	DOCS	Y
	S(1.2) Saturation	0.03	0.03	DOCS	Y


EXCITER [ESST4B], checked by MOD-026.
PSS/E Index	Parameter Name	Model Value	Actual Field Equipment	Verification Method	Match?
	AVR proportional Gain	110	110	MOD-026	Y
	AVR integral Gain	10	10	MOD-026	Y


STABILIZER [PSS2B], checked by directly query digital stabilizer settings.
PSS/E Index	Parameter Name	Model Value	Actual Field Equipment	Verification Method	Match?
	Tw1 First Washout	3.5	3.5	Direct	Y
	Tw2 Second washout	3.5	3.5	Direct	Y
	Tw1 First Washout	3.5	3.5	Direct	Y
	Tw2 Second washout	0.5	0.5	Direct	Y
	Ks2 Gain on Signal #2	0.4	0.4	Direct	Y
	Ks2 Gain on Signal #2	0.7	0.7	Direct	Y


GOVERNOR [GGOV1], checked by MOD-027.  Droop directly checked in equipment settings.
PSS/E Index	Parameter Name	Model Value	Actual Field Equipment	Verification Method	Match?
	Droop	5%	5%	Direct	Y
	Kpgov Proportional Gain	6.0	6.0	MOD-027	Y
	Kigov Integral Gain	0.5	0.5	MOD-027	Y
	Actuator Time Const	0.6	0.6	MOD-027	Y


PROTECTION [Overvoltage] checked directly in relay settings.
Model	Field Relay		
V Thres	Seconds	V Thres	Seconds	Verification Method	Match?
1.25	0.02	1.25	0.02	Inspection of relay curves	Y
1.11	8	1.11	8	Inspection of relay curves	Y
					


PROTECTION [Undervoltage] checked directly in relay settings.
Model	Field Relay		
V Thres	Seconds	V Thres	Seconds	Verification Method	Match?
0.6	0.02	1.25	0.02	Inspection of relay curves	Y
0.80	8	1.11	8	Inspection of relay curves	Y


PROTECTION [Underfrequency] checked directly in relay settings.
Model	Field Relay		
Hz Thres	Seconds	Hz Thres	Seconds	Verification Method	Match?
65	0.02	65	0.02	Inspection of relay curves	Y
62	8	62	8	Inspection of relay curves	Y


PROTECTION [Overfrequency] checked directly in relay settings.
Model	Field Relay		
Hz Thres	Seconds	Hz Thres	Seconds	Verification Method	Match?
57.5	0.02	57.5	0.02	Inspection of relay curves	Y
58.5	8	58.5	8	Inspection of relay curves	Y

